South Korea began accepting refugees in 1994, but acceptance of outsiders remains contentious in Korean society.  South Korea has accepted just 164 asylum seekers this year from nearly 6,000 who applied despite coronavirus travel curbs, according to government data.  Immigration is a contentious issue in South Korea, where many pride themselves on ethnic homogeneity, even as its population of 51 million rapidly ages and the labour force shrinks.  The figure of 5,896 applicants for refugee status between January and August was down about 36 percent from the corresponding period last year, data from the justice ministry showed last week.  Russians topped the list of applicants at nearly 18 percent, followed by people from Egypt, Kazakhstan, Malaysia and India.  Only about 4 percent of the 4,019 who completed the screening process were accepted or granted residency for humanitarian reasons, although not recognised as refugees, a rate less than the 6 percent of 2019 and 16 percent of 2018, the data showed.  There was a backlash in 2018 against immigration after the arrival of hundreds of asylum-seekers from war-torn Yemen in the southern resort island of Jeju [File: Ed Jones/AFP] South Korea began accepting refugee applications in 1994 in line with the UN refugee convention. The number of asylum seekers has risen sharply since it became the first Asian nation to adopt its own refugee law in 2013, peaking at 16,173 in 2018.  But the government clamped down after a sudden spike in Yemeni arrivals in the southern resort island of Jeju that year stoked protests.  Defectors from neighbouring North Korea are not regarded as asylum seekers and automatically receive citizenship.  In Europe, although asylum applications have also plummeted this year amid border closures against the virus, many countries have sheltered hundreds of thousands of refugees stricken by war and poverty.  But few Asian nations, including Japan, have been keen to accept more refugees.  New York-based Human Rights Watch criticised Seoul’s strict refugee policy this year, urging more acceptance and transparency in application reviews.  The justice ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment from the Reuters news agency. S Korea accepts just 164 of nearly 6,000 asylum seekers