PARIS (AP) — Demonstrations around France have been called in support of freedom of speech and to pay tribute to a French history teacher who was beheaded near Paris after discussing caricatures of Islam’s Prophet Muhammad with his class.  Samuel Paty was beheaded on Friday by an 18-year-old Moscow-born Chechen refugee who was shot dead by police.  Political leaders, associations, and unions will demonstrate Sunday afternoon in Paris and in other major cities including Lyon, Toulouse, Strasbourg, Nantes, Marseille, Lille, and Bordeaux.  The gatherings come as French authorities say they have detained a 10th person following the horrific incident.  French anti-terrorism prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said an investigation for murder with a suspected terrorist motive was opened. At least four of those detained are family members of the attacker, who had been granted a 10-year residency in France as a refugee in March, was armed with a knife and an airsoft gun, which fires plastic pellets.  His half-sister joined the Islamic State group in Syria in 2014, Ricard said. He didn’t give her name, and it is not clear where she is now.  Macron Confirms Street Beheading an 'Islamist Terrorist Attack', Victim Targeted for Teaching 'Freedom of Expression' https://t.co/MN812uEWH7 — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 17, 2020  The prosecutor said a text claiming responsibility and a photograph of the victim were found on the suspect’s phone. He also confirmed that a Twitter account under the name Abdoulakh A belonged to the suspect. It posted a photo of the decapitated head minutes after the attack along with the message “I have executed one of the dogs from hell who dared to put Muhammad down.”  The attack has provoked global condemnation. U.S. President Donald Trump addressed the killing Saturday night from a political rally in Janesville, Wisconsin.  “On behalf of the United States, I’d like to extend my really sincere condolences to a friend of mine, President [Emmanuel] Macron of France, where they just yesterday had a vicious, vicious Islamic terrorist attack — beheading an innocent teacher near Paris,” he said. “France is having a hard time and Macron’s a great guy.”  Father of Paris Charlie Hebdo Attacker Claims To Be ‘Proud’ Of His Actions https://t.co/ue1rd7TCuu — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 30, 2020 Solidarity Demonstrations for French Teacher Beheaded for Showing Images of Mohammed.