Kate Schmier is a writer and editor whose fiction and nonfiction have been featured by NPR, Lilith Magazine, Alma, and others. She holds an MFA in writing from Sarah Lawrence College. The views expressed here are her own. Read more opinion on CNN.  (CNN) When my husband Uri was finally sworn in as a US citizen in August, our announcement to loved ones was met with both excitement and trepidation. "I hope our country changes so that we can one day deserve a citizen like him," one friend responded. "I wish we were in a better position to welcome him," said another.  Kate Schmier  I understood their reservations: Uri has become an American amidst a pandemic that threatens our nation's future, an administration that has repeatedly shown its hostility to immigrants, and a precipitous deterioration of our country's global image. A recent Pew Research Center survey showed that international public opinion of the US is at a historic low  Each day seems to bring fresh warnings that our democracy is in peril. And yet, when Uri took his oath of allegiance -- wearing a mask and a face shield in a sweltering Manhattan courthouse -- I found myself celebrating. Near the end of Uri's ceremony, the judge reminded everyone in the courtroom that we are a nation of immigrants and thanked them for choosing the United States. I am forever grateful that Uri made this choice -- and that so many others have, too.  Throughout our history, immigrants' bravery, ingenuity and determination have enabled our country to progress towards its highest ideals and survive its darkest hours. By removing roadblocks for new citizens, especially around voting, we can mobilize individuals who could set our nation on a path to renewal.  I'm thrilled that Uri now has the chance to make his voice heard -- and relieved by what his naturalization means for our family. For the majority of our 11 years together, I felt a looming sense of uncertainty and impermanence. Uri, a jazz saxophonist from Israel, told me soon after we met that there were no guarantees he would be able to stay. My husband became a citizen at a heartbreaking time for America. Here's why I'm still celebrating