(CNN) This is how you live during a fire season during the sixth month of a pandemic: One day at a time. Our bags had been packed for a while now, our canned goods and go-boxes at the ready. We'd already been through a couple of red flag warnings this year, and we expect more. And: Everyone around us is living this way. Everyone is weary, and everyone does their best to have a stiff upper lip.  Tess Taylor  Still, last Wednesday, the horrible dark Mordor-red sky threw us. The blood-red, non-dawn, all-day smoke darkness felt newly extreme . I moved as if in a trance. I just wanted out. I was packing the kids' bags even before I knew it. I was throwing the contents of our fridge into a cooler.  Just to set the scene: We were already in the fourth fire and smoke season in a row in the Bay Area. This fire and smoke season has already been severe: It has already arrived early; it has already gone on a long time. The air had been unhealthy for the better part of a month Where we live, what that means is: We've kept our kids in, even when it was hot. We've kept the windows closed against the ash and smoky breezes. We've felt stuffy and lonely and grumpy inside, and dizzy and headachy and light-headed outside. After so much smoke, our lungs feel phlegmy and my daughter complains of sore throats. And: Nobody has real school, nobody can go to anyone else's house, everyone has already done every craft they remember. We are sick of screens, tired of online yoga, aware of each other's fragility. It's already been hard, getting through the pandemic, for six months. It's already been a rough season on top of a hard season on top of a bad one.  Still. We had kept finding some joys. We'd been getting by: if we did find that there was a pocket of good air, we'd drive there. Under the smoke, we still live in a place of astounding beauty: and if the air seemed good we'd rearrange things, and drive to the beach or the ocean or a trailhead and find a good hour or two. We'd find a patch of blue sky, or a place where we could smell the sharp smell of bay or let the breezes play on our skin. And we'd be grateful, and inhale, and come back with some strength for being happy.  Despite the horrible air last Wednesday, packing felt almost normal: We had already been planning to leave that weekend. In another year, we would have gotten away to savor the golden light of September, gone camping at the beach, tried to hang onto the sweetness of summer. This year, my only goal was—Just get someplace we can see the sky. Just get someplace where we all can breathe. And that is how last Thursday we hit the road, hoping to stop on the eastern side of the Sierra, hoping to perch in a small cabin my friends sometimes rent out.  Read More We fled the smoke out West and just kept going