Earl Blumenauer, a Democrat, represents Oregon's 3rd Congressional District and Barbara Lee, a Democrat, represents California's 13th Congressional District in the US House of Representatives. The lawmakers are co-chairs of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus. The views expressed in this commentary are their own. Read more opinion articles on CNN.  (CNN) This year has brought the tangible impacts of deep-rooted systemic racism in our country to the forefront. From our criminal justice system to public health disparities, the last several months have revealed what we already knew to be true: Communities of color bear the brunt of our nation's most egregious and unjust policies. Now, we have an opportunity to close this year by dismantling a form of systemic racism -- the nation's failed war on drugs.  Rep. Earl Blumenauer  Rep. Barbara Lee  Cannabis reform is a critical and urgent matter of racial justice. The continued enforcement of cannabis prohibition laws results in over 600,000 arrests annually , according to 2017 FBI crime statistics, and Black people are almost four times more likely to be arrested for cannabis possession than their White counterparts, despite equal rates of use across populations, per the ACLU.  What's more, people of color are historically targeted by selective enforcement and discriminatory sentencing practices. Black men receive federal drug sentences that are 19% longer than sentences imposed for White men, while Latinos are nearly 6.5 times more likely to receive a federal sentence for cannabis possession than non-Hispanic White people.  This means that, in the middle of a pandemic, thousands of people of color are currently stuck in crowded, unsafe prisons for minor drug offenses that are now legal and profitable in many places around the country.  JUST WATCHED These pot stocks are poised to win big under Biden Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These pot stocks are poised to win big under Biden 02:04  This is inhumane and should be enough to put an end to the prohibition of cannabis. We must restore the lives of those hurt by these policies of the past. We should expunge records for minor cannabis offenses, giving former offenders an opportunity to regain the same privileges they had before their encounter with the criminal justice system. We must reinvest in these communities by providing them access to the thriving cannabis industry. It's time to end the nation's failed war on marijuana