Samantha Vinograd is a CNN national security analyst. She is a senior adviser at the University of Delaware's Biden Institute, which is not affiliated with the Biden campaign. Vinograd served on President Barack Obama's National Security Council from 2009 to 2013 and at the Treasury Department under President George W. Bush. Follow her @sam_vinograd. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion articles on CNN.  (CNN) The first presidential debate on Tuesday night was a national security catastrophe. And it wasn't only the countless Americans who watched in dismay as President Donald Trump acted more like a child than a competent commander in chief -- the world was watching. Trump's debate disaster not only embarrassed our country, it made each and every one of us less safe.  Sam Vinograd  At a basic level, Trump's debate performance was a metaphor for his presidency -- erratic, unhinged and untruthful. In fact, the only thing that Trump did well during the debate was lie.  Our allies and our enemies saw the President mocking not only the debate rules but also our democracy, as he dug his heels in on his refusal to say he will accept the outcome of the 2020 election.  While allies likely watched in dismay and probably continue to worry about how to fill the void left by a lack of competent US leadership, our enemies have cause to rejoice. Trump's behavior has been a critical contribution to Russia's mission to undermine the US-led world order and what Trump's own White House has described as the Chinese Communist Party's goals of discrediting democracy. The Chinese just have to re-air Trump's debate debacle, and US democracy is discredited.  The President's interruptions, lies and disjointed thoughts don't paint a picture of a sane global leader; they paint a picture of a maniac man who has access to the nuclear codes. After watching that debate, not to mention witnessing the past almost four years of his presidency, the idea that Trump is the man whom Americans elected to lead the nation is a major self-inflicted blow to any fantasy of the United States as a global leader. Rival powers like Russia and China probably cheered throughout those painful 90-plus minutes because Trump is a poster child for their propaganda about democratic decay. Trump's debate performance was a national security disaster