Michael D'Antonio is the author of the book "Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success" and co-author, with Peter Eisner, of the upcoming book "High Crimes: The Corruption, Impunity, and Impeachment of Donald Trump." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.  (CNN) In last week's NBC town hall with President Donald Trump, moderator Savannah Guthrie tried to tell Trump that he's not supposed to be "like someone's crazy uncle." (She made this comment as Trump defended disseminating a conspiracy theory.) We all know the character she was referring to: the unfiltered family member who will say anything to get a rise out of others with no regard for factuality. Ever since, Trump has been acting like he considered Guthrie's quip a challenge, careening around the country saying things you would indeed expect to hear from a crazy uncle.  Most recently the President's remarks were about scientists -- and one in particular: the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr. Anthony Fauci . As one of the government's leading experts on the Covd-19 pandemic, Fauci has held the nation's respect when it comes to the crisis, even as President Trump's leadership has left many fearful for the health of the nation. This may explain why the President's re-election campaign crafted a pro-Trump ad featuring the doctor's "praise" of Trump's work.  After the ad aired, Fauci felt it necessary to publicly state that this praise was taken out of context, which, of course, prompted the President to criticize the doctor, something he hasn't shied away from doing in the past.  "People are tired of hearing Fauci and all these idiots ... If I listened to him, we'd have 500,000 deaths," Trump said on Monday , before stating, "If there's a reporter on, you can have it just the way I said it, I couldn't care less."  Only a crazy uncle type of politician would spend good money on a television ad associating himself with someone and then, with the ad still running, go after the same fellow in a foul-mouthed tirade that he knew would be heard by members of the press and the public. What to do about Crazy Uncle Trump