Rick Santorum represented Pennsylvania in the US Senate from 1995 to 2007, serving as Senate Republican Conference chairman from 2001 to 2007. Santorum twice ran for president of the United States and is now a CNN senior political commentator. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.  (CNN) The much anticipated first 2020 presidential debate between President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden will undoubtedly captivate the nation. Political pundits, activists, and voters should not underestimate Biden's debate acumen. As the Democratic presidential nominee's Senate colleague for a dozen years, and as someone who has participated in Republican presidential primary debates, I know firsthand that he possesses performance skills necessary to succeed in Tuesday's debate.  Rick Santorum  Recently, observers on all sides of the political spectrum have questioned Biden's ability to display a sound debate performance, but I expect him to bring his 'A' game.  Let us not forget, Biden is a career politician who has spent more than four decades in Washington. That would give anyone a depth of knowledge of every issue and a comfort that comes from debating them on the Senate floor for more than 35 years. We also witnessed him hold his own in the vice-presidential debates against former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin and former Speaker of the House Paul Ryan , and most recently in some of the primary debates, he outmaneuvered his Democratic opponents -- many of whom are well-respected debaters in their own rights.  As someone who worked alongside Biden in the United States Senate, almost always on opposing sides of our nation's most critical issues, I can affirm that he would not have risen into Democratic leadership if he did not hold the skills necessary to succeed on Tuesday night's stage.  Trump must be prepared to take the fight to Biden. Hillary Clinton was a tough challenger in 2016, but Biden has many more years of substantive national debate experience than her. Battle-tested debate veteran Joe Biden will be tuned in Tuesday night