(CNN) Kamala Harris , who on Saturday became America's first female, first Black and first South Asian vice president-elect , represents a new face of political power after an election all about who wields power and how they use it.  The California senator's history-making win also represents the millions of women in the demographics -- often overlooked, historically underrepresented and systematically ignored -- who are now the recipients of that new power for the first time in the country's 200-plus-year history.  Harris tweeted a video of herself on the phone with President-elect Joe Biden shortly after CNN projected their win.  "We did it, we did it, Joe. You're going to be the next president of the United States," she said with a signature laugh.  Harris and Biden's victory, as projected by CNN, arrives days after a prolonged vote count reflecting a deeply divided electorate. It symbolizes a bookend to the Trump era , which followed the first Black US President and was buoyed by social ills including White supremacy . Harris' triumph, in particular, marks a new high point in a career of barrier-breaking accomplishments, from San Francisco district attorney to California attorney general to just the second-ever Black female US senator.  "That I am here tonight is a testament to the dedication of generations before me," Harris said during her Democratic National Convention acceptance speech in August, mentioning women such as Constance Baker Motley, Fannie Lou Hamer and Shirley Chisholm.  "Women and men who believed so fiercely in the promise of equality, liberty and justice for all," she had said.  On Saturday night, during her first speech as vice president-elect, Harris also noted the historic moment.  "While I may be the first woman in this office, I will not be the last," she said in Wilmington, Delaware.  "Because every little girl watching tonight sees that this is a country of possibilities, and to the children of our country, regardless of your gender, our country has sent you a clear message: Dream with ambition, lead with conviction and see yourselves in a way that others may not, simply because they've never seen it before. But know that we will applaud you every step of the way," she said.  Harris attended Howard University, a historically Black university in Washington. Her time at Howard, where she joined Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc. , profoundly shaped her political vision.  "You didn't have to be confined by anyone else's idea of what it means to be Black," she told CNN's Dana Bash on "State of the Union" in September . "You could be a fine arts student and also be class president. You could be homecoming queen and be the head of the science club. You could be a member of a sorority and be in student government and want to go to law school, and it encouraged you to be your full self."  Over the course of her White House bid, Harris never shied away from mentioning that people attempted to box her in or doubted her as she sought to pave a path in politics.  "I didn't listen. And the people didn't listen, either. And we won," she would say.  'We are on the ticket'  Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Kamala Harris speaks during an economic forum in Las Vegas in April 2019. The US senator from California is now the vice president-elect. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris A young Harris is seen with her mother, Shyamala, in this photo that was posted on Harris' Facebook page in March 2017. "My mother was born in India and came to the United States to study at UC Berkeley, where she eventually became an endocrinologist and breast-cancer researcher," Harris wrote. "She, and so many other strong women in my life, showed me the importance of community involvement and public service." Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris and her younger sister, Maya, pose for a Christmas photo in 1968. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris rides a carousel in this old photo she posted to social media in 2015. Her name, Kamala, comes from the Sanskrit word for the lotus flower. Harris is the daughter of Jamaican and Indian immigrants and grew up attending both a Baptist church and a Hindu temple. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris tweeted this photo of her as a child after referencing it during a Democratic debate in June 2019. During the debate, she confronted Joe Biden over his opposition many years ago to the federal government mandating busing to integrate schools. "There was a little girl in California who was bussed to school," she tweeted. "That little girl was me." Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris got her bachelor's degree from Howard University in Washington, DC. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris graduates from law school in 1989. "My first grade teacher, Mrs. Wilson (left), came to cheer me on," Harris said. "My mom was pretty proud, too." Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris is joined by San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom, left, and the Rev. Cecil Williams, center, for a San Francisco march celebrating Martin Luther King Jr. in January 2004. Harris was the city's district attorney from 2004 to 2011. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris speaks to supporters before a "No on K" news conference in October 2008. The San Francisco ballot measure Proposition K sought to stop enforcing laws against prostitution. It was voted down on election day. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris looks over seized guns following a news conference in Sacramento, California, in June 2011. Harris became California's attorney general in January 2011 and held that office until 2017. She was the first African-American, the first woman and the first Asian-American to become California's attorney general. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris attends the Democratic Party's state convention in February 2012. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris watches California Gov. Jerry Brown sign copies of the California Homeowner Bill of Rights in July 2012. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris speaks on the second night of the 2012 Democratic National Convention. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris In May 2013, Harris and California Highway Patrol Commissioner Joe Farrow place a wreath honoring Highway Patrol officers who were killed in the line of duty. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris officiates the wedding of Kris Perry, left, and Sandy Stier in June 2013. Perry and Stier were married after a federal appeals court cleared the way for California to immediately resume issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris is flanked by her husband, Douglas Emhoff, and her sister, Maya. Next to Maya Harris is Maya's daughter, Meena, and Maya's husband, Tony West. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris receives a gift from supporters in January 2015, after she announced plans to run for the US Senate. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris speaks during a news conference in February 2015. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris, as a new member of the Senate, participates in a re-enacted swearing-in with Vice President Joe Biden in January 2017. She is the first Indian-American and the second African-American woman to serve as a US senator. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris talks with former US Sen. Bob Dole on Capitol Hill in January 2017. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris attends the Women's March on Washington in January 2017. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris speaks to Fatima and Yuleni Avelica, whose father was deported, before a news conference on Capitol Hill in March 2017. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris greets a crowd at an event in Richmond, Virginia, in October 2017. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris In November 2017, Harris was among the lawmakers on the Senate Intelligence Committee grilling Silicon Valley giants over the role that their platforms inadvertently played in Russia's meddling in US politics. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris and her husband attend a Golden State Warriors basketball game in May 2018. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris attends a rally with, from left, California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, gubernatorial candidate Gavin Newsom, and Newsom's wife, Jennifer, in May 2018. Newsom won the election in November. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris speaks with US Sen. Cory Booker during the confirmation hearing for Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh in September 2018. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris presses Kavanaugh during his confirmation hearing. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris arrives with staff for a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing in September 2018. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris reads from her children's book "Superheroes Are Everywhere" during a book signing in Los Angeles in January 2019. She also released a memoir, "The Truths We Hold: An American Journey." Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris A person holds a Harris poster during the Women's March in Los Angeles in January 2019. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris holds her first presidential campaign rally in January 2019. She had announced her presidential bid a week earlier on Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris speaks during her CNN town-hall event, which was moderated by Jake Tapper in Iowa in January 2019. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Media members photograph Harris and the Rev. Al Sharpton as they have lunch at Sylvia's Restaurant in New York in February 2019. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris confronts former Vice President Joe Biden, left, during the first Democratic debates in June 2019. Harris went after Biden over his early-career opposition to federally mandated busing. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris rides her campaign bus in Iowa in August 2019. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris and Biden greet each other at a Detroit high school as they attend a "Get Out the Vote" event in March 2020. Harris had dropped out of the presidential race a few months earlier. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris From left, Harris, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and US Sen. Cory Booker stand near a Capitol Hill statue of abolitionist Frederick Douglass during a June 2020 event commemorating the life of George Floyd. Floyd, an unarmed Black man, was killed in police custody in Minneapolis. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Biden calls Harris from his Delaware home to inform her that she was his choice for vice president. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Biden listens as Harris speaks during their first campaign event as a presidential ticket. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris and Biden sign paperwork to officially get on the ballot in all 50 states. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris delivers a speech as she formally accepts the nomination at the Democratic National Convention. "Let's fight with conviction," Harris said in her speech. "Let's fight with hope. Let's fight with confidence in ourselves and a commitment to each other. To the America we know is possible. The America we love." Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris addresses Vice President Mike Pence during the vice presidential debate in October 2020. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris waves to supporters at a campaign event in Lakewood, Ohio, in October 2020. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Harris and Biden are joined by their spouses after their victory speeches in Wilmington, Delaware, in November 2020. Hide Caption 45 of 45  As a Black and South Asian woman in an overwhelmingly White arena, Harris on her journey to the White House was something of a pioneer. And voters noticed.  "It just feels like Black girls like me can run for class president, Black girls like me can go for the big things in life like she did," 14-year-old Paris Bond told CNN in August.  Katerina Shadrach, an 11-year-old South Asian and White American, told CNN at an August 2019 Harris rally that Harris was her role model. Inside a packed gymnasium, Shadrach stood on the edges of the rally, next to her father, Sheldon, clutching Harris' memoir, "The Truths We Hold," as she waited for the senator who looked just like her to take the stage.  An aspiring US senator herself, Shadrach told Harris after the event of her ambition to chart a path like Harris'. According to Shadrach, Harris told her that "as long as I put my mind to it and I do the best that I can and be like the best version of me, I will be able to accomplish my goals."  Seeing Harris on the Democratic presidential ticket a year later, Shadrach called the moment a "really big step" for girls and women who look like her.  "She was the one who was able to prove that it's actually possible," Shadrach said. "You can see kind of a connection, because we are two similar people. And so if she can get to that, I can get to that. And I can identify with her."  Or as Leah Daughtry, who headed up the 2016 and 2008 Democratic conventions, said of Harris earlier this year to The New York Times : "She is the stand-in for Black women. We are on the ticket."  Rise and reign  Harris was born in Oakland, California, in 1964, to parents who raised her in a bassinet of civil rights activism.  Her mother, Shyamala Gopalan Harris, an Indian immigrant, was a breast cancer researcher; she died of cancer in 2009. Harris' father, Donald, is a Jamaican American professor of economics. On the campaign trail, the vice president-elect often talked about how her activist parents would push her in her stroller at civil rights marches. The couple divorced in 1972.  Harris grew up in the Bay Area but took frequent trips to India to visit extended family. At 12, she and her sister, Maya, moved with their mother to majority-White Montréal, where Gopalan Harris had secured a teaching post at McGill University as well as a research position at the Jewish General Hospital.  While campaigning, Harris frequently spoke about her closeness to her mother.  "My mother, she raised my sister and me, and she was tough," Harris would say. "Our mother was all of 5 feet tall, but if you ever met her, you would've thought she was 10 feet tall."  After graduating from Howard in 1986 for her undergraduate degree and from the University of California's Hastings College of the Law in 1989, Harris passed the bar the following year and joined the Alameda County prosecutor's office as an assistant district attorney. From there, she began her political ascent.  In 2003, Harris won her first race for San Francisco district attorney, becoming the first Black woman to hold such an office in California. In 2010, she became the first Black woman elected as California attorney general, and in 2016, she became only the second Black woman ever elected as a US senator.  She often spoke of her barrier-breaking life during her presidential primary campaign, saying that she understood how being the first requires voters to "see what can be unburdened by what has been."  More than a demographic  Harris is a lot of things beyond her gender and her race, of course. But her mere presence brings so much with it -- so much to those, of all ages, who see themselves in her.  As she waited for Harris to take the stage at a rally in Asheville, North Carolina, in October, Elinor Earl, 77, said she never thought that she'd see a Black woman like herself rise through the ranks as Harris has.  "Not at my age," Earl told CNN. "It's wonderful to see her. I wouldn't have missed it for nothing in the world."  Harris isn't shy about highlighting her upbringing or her influences, as was clear through her shoutouts to AKAs and HBCUs during her DNC speech  "Family is my beloved Alpha Kappa Alpha, our Divine Nine, and my HBCU brothers and sisters," she said.  Harris was referring to the nickname for America's nine historically Black fraternities and sororities, and nodding to the fact that she was the first graduate of a historically Black college or university to be selected as a major party's candidate's running mate.  Harris' remarks couldn't have contrasted more with President Donald Trump's rhetoric over the past four years.  Nasty. Sh*thole countries. Go back . Whereas Trump has spent his tenure in the White House excoriating otherness and propping up the country's many hierarchies, Harris used the campaign trail to do the precise opposite.  Indeed, Harris' bid was a pure distillation of the complex joy of representation. Often in her Converse sneakers, the former prosecutor made space for women of color to tell their lived experiences during campaign events on the trail. She made a point to prop up women of color small business owners, frequently telling them to say their companies' names clearly in front of the press so they could be included in news stories. Certain voters felt, in today's parlance, seen. And come Inauguration Day, that visibility will extend to the White House and, likely, alchemize into substantive representation.  There's a sobering corollary to Harris' historic win. In important ways, her success says as much about America's political institutions as it does about her.  That Harris is the first female, first Black and first South Asian vice president-elect is both an affirmation of her excellence -- her skill as a debater against Mike Pence, for instance -- and a reflection of the racism and sexism that punish women of color who run for executive office.  And while it's true that Harris this week achieved yet more firsts, it's maybe more accurate to describe these firsts as onlys -- she became the only female, only Black and only South Asian vice president-elect.  That framing shines a less flattering light on America. But it's more honest. It also hints at possibility -- the possibility that Harris on Saturday opened up the door for women and girls who look like her to follow, to claim power for their own.  Harris' mother put it best: "Kamala, you may be the first to do many things, but make sure you're not the last."  This story has been updated with remarks from Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on Saturday night. Harris bursts through another barrier, becoming the first female, first Black and first South Asian vice president-elect