A version of this story appeared in the December 11 edition of CNN's Coronavirus: Fact vs. Fiction newsletter. Sign up here to receive the need-to-know headlines every weekday  (CNN) The US saw a major milestone on Thursday when vaccine advisers to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) voted to recommend the agency grant emergency use authorization (EUA) to Pfizer/BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine, Christina Maxouris writes. FDA chief Dr. Stephen Hahn says the regulator is rapidly working "toward finalization and issuance" of an EUA.  Americans shouldn't let their guard down though, with the nation unlikely to see a meaningful, widespread benefit until well into 2021. "Probably for the next 60 to 90 days, we're going to have more deaths per day than we had in 9/11," CDC director Dr. Robert Redfield said. "This is going to be a real unfortunate loss of life, as all that we've had so far, and the reality is the vaccine approval this week is not going to really impact."  A coronavirus model by the University of Washington has projected 502,000 Americans will have died from Covid-19 by April 1, a figure that would drop by 56,000 if 95% of Americans wore masks. But like mask-wearing, there are questions on whether taking the shot will turn into a partisan issue. That already appears to be the case in some parts of Tennessee, Elle Reeve, Samantha Guff and Deborah Brunswick report.  "There's a lot of sincere people that are doing their best to put out a vaccine, but that doesn't mean I'm going to take it," said Greg Locke, pastor of Global Vision Bible Church in Wilson County, which voted overwhelmingly for President Donald Trump in November's election and is now seeing a surge in cases. Locke often records Facebook videos with political views in a Walmart parking lot, saying he was not "scared of some fake pandemic" in a recent sermon. "And I don't wear a mask when I go in either!" added the pastor, who believes Trump won the election.  That said, a recent survey by Pew Research Center found increasing acceptance of the Covid-19 vaccine nationwide. About 60% of Americans now say they'd be prepared to be inoculated, and nearly half of those who are reluctant to do so say it's possible they'd get it after others. And Thursday's vote may have helped dispel the fears of people showing vaccine hesitancy. What you need to know about coronavirus on Friday, December 11