Maya Rackoff is a senior at Riverdale Country School in the Bronx. She began volunteer work with refugees five years ago, and this past summer, under the mentorship of a Columbia University professor, conducted research on the history of the refugee crisis and refugees' contributions to the U.S. economy. The opinions in this article belong to the author. View more opinion articles on CNN.  (CNN) I am the great-granddaughter of refugees who fled Russian pogroms in 1895. Had they not been given safe haven here in the United States, they would have been tortured and killed. My very existence depends on international humanitarianism, an awareness that has inspired me to work closely with others like them.  Maya Rackoff  Over the past four years, I've witnessed, in horror, the deterioration of our country's tradition of welcoming the world's most vulnerable people to our shores. On September 30, President Donald Trump and his administration announced the US has set a refugee cap of 15,000 for the next fiscal year, the lowest in the country's history. With the UN estimating that at the end of 2019 there were 79.5 million forcibly displaced people, the refugee crisis is at its height, while the US humanitarian response is at a shocking low.  As our country's leadership turns its back on people in desperate need of help, people like me have had to take action. Five years ago, I founded a program that provides daily meals to nine Sudanese and Eritrean refugee daycares in South Tel Aviv in Israel. I made an award-winning short-film about this program, which I called "Food Refuge."  Most recently, I've worked with an Afghani refugee family in the Bronx, supporting their two young boys' transition into the American school system. This past summer, between my junior and senior years of high school, I conducted extensive research on refugees' contributions to the US economy under the mentorship of a Columbia University professor. I hope that my research helps convince even the most skeptical Americans that admitting refugees into our country is not only a humanitarian obligation, but also an economic cause.  The day of the Trump Administration's alarming announcement at a campaign rally in Minnesota, the President warned attendees about "Joe Biden's plan to inundate your state with a historic flood of refugees ... coming from the most dangerous places in the world."  Read More Opinion: Refugees like my ancestors are part of what made America great