If your day doesn't start until you're up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.  Get '5 Things' in your inbox  (CNN) The Zogg and Glass wildfires in California are less than 10% contained , and they could become even more devastating in the coming days.  Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)  1. Coronavirus  After China spent the last few months getting the coronavirus under control, hundreds of millions of people there are expected to be on the move in the next few days as the country celebrates the National Day holiday. The eight-day Mid-Autumn Festival break is China's first major holiday since its peak of the Covid-19 crisis , and it will be a tense test of just how secure the country's pandemic response is. Meanwhile, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has extended the no-sail order for cruise ships through October 31 . The CDC said recent outbreaks on cruise ships prove the vessels could be used to "transmit and amplify" the spread of the disease. More than 1 million people have died of the coronavirus worldwide , and the US death toll now stands at more than 206,900  Millions in China are traveling again. See what it is like  Millions in China are traveling again. See what it is like 02:38  Millions in China are traveling again. See what it is like  2. Election 2020  JUST WATCHED Undecided voter reacts to debate: I'd consider not voting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Undecided voter reacts to debate: I'd consider not voting 02:57  3. Economy  JUST WATCHED Airline furloughs loom for thousands of workers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Airline furloughs loom for thousands of workers 01:53  4. Immigration  Twenty-one people died in ICE custody in the fiscal year that ended yesterday. That's more than double the number of deaths in fiscal year 2019 and the highest annual death toll in 15 years. Immigrants rights advocates say the deaths are a sign of deteriorating conditions, serious problems with medical care and ICE's flawed approach to handling the pandemic. More than a third of those who died in ICE custody last year had tested positive for Covid-19. While ICE officials maintain that deaths in custody are extremely rare, the agency has faced growing scrutiny for how it handles even routine medical care. Two weeks ago, a former employee at an ICE facility in Georgia filed a complaint detailing high rates of hysterectomies and alleged medical neglect  JUST WATCHED Trump's border wall vs Biden's focus on asylum Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's border wall vs Biden's focus on asylum 01:49  5. Malaysia  US Customs and Border Protection is blocking palm oil and palm oil products from Malaysia over allegations of forced labor abuses, including physical and sexual violence, debt bondage, withholding of wages and use of child labor. The restrictions are part of a larger mission by the agency to target overseas forced labor practices. These kinds of crackdowns started increasing after a 2016 change in US law renewed CBP's mandate to block products made with forced labor. In the fiscal year 2020, the agency issued 13 such restrictions -- more than any other fiscal year.  JUST WATCHED How do I use palm oil responsibly? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How do I use palm oil responsibly? 01:23  BREAKFAST BROWSE  Walmart is redesigning its stores to make things easier to find  Now maybe you won't emerge in a daze with bags full of stuff and no recollection of what you originally came in for.  JUST WATCHED See what's new inside Walmart stores Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See what's new inside Walmart stores 01:01  'The Bachelorette' host Chris Harrison promises the 'most explosive' season fans have ever seen  Is "explosive" something we want in a dating show? Genuinely asking.  Atlanta exotic dancers' 'Get Your Booty to the Poll' PSA grabs attention  JUST WATCHED Exotic dancers explain 'Get Your Booty To The Poll' campaign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Exotic dancers explain 'Get Your Booty To The Poll' campaign 01:48  Super Bowl QB Patrick Mahomes and his fiancée are expecting a baby  First a Super Bowl win and now a baby on the way? 2020 may not be your year, but it's certainly Patrick Mahomes'  A Florida city is having a swan sale because it costs $10,000 per year to feed them  TODAY'S NUMBER  $800 million  That's the value of a settlement approved for victims of the Las Vegas mass shooting, in which 58 people died three years ago today. It's considered the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history.  JUST WATCHED Survivors mark 1 year since Las Vegas shooting in 2018 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Survivors mark 1 year since Las Vegas shooting in 2018 03:09  TODAY'S QUOTE  "There are members of every community that need and wanted these resources, that want to find themselves reflected in their library's collections and programs. This allows them to understand themselves in the world and affirm their identity."  Deborah Caldwell-Stone, director of the American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom. It's Banned Book Week, and the ALA has published lists of the top 10 most challenged books of 2019 and the top 100 most frequently banned books of the decade. The lists show a growing number of censored books have LGBTQ+ themes.  TODAY'S WEATHER  JUST WATCHED Over 40 million impacted by heat in the West Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Over 40 million impacted by heat in the West 01:45  AND FINALLY  This spaghetti is not what it seems ... 5 things to know for October 1: Coronavirus, election, economy, immigration, Malaysia