Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN.  (CNN) Countless people deserve credit for their role in defeating Donald Trump, but to me the biggest thanks go to the women of America. You gave us hope with the original Women's March in 2017 the day after Trump inauguration, planting the seeds for resistance to the new administration. There's clearly a straight line that runs from that march to the election of Kamala Harris as the first female vice president in our nation's history.  Dean Obeidallah  Don't get me wrong: Defeating Trump ultimately took a herculean effort by women as well as men coming together from various communities to form a coalition that I view as the best of America. But think back to when Trump was inaugurated on January 20, 2017. It was a day filled with pain and apprehension for millions. Trump's inaugural address offered little comfort, instead offering a jarring promise to end "American carnage."  But when the sun came up the next day, the streets of America were soon filled with more than one million people taking part in the Women's March in cities from Washington DC to Los Angeles and countless places in between. This march, organized by women, featured women of all ages -- along with male allies -- taking to the streets wearing their famous pink hats and bearing signs opposing Trump from, "My body, my choice" to "Resist, Organize, Onward."  That march lifted the spirts of not only those who attended, but the millions more Trump opponents who watched on television. This massive street action that spanned from sea to shining sea told us two things: We were not alone and that we would not be silent in the face of Trump -- but rather would stand up to him every step of the way.  We saw an example of that just a few days later when Trump signed an executive order -- referred to as the "Muslim ban" -- that prohibited immigrants from seven Muslim majority countries from entering the country for 90 days, partially fulfilling his bigoted campaign promise of a "total and complete shutdown" of Muslims entering the country "until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on." The people who deserve the most credit for defeating Trump