If your day doesn't start until you're up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.  (CNN) American Airlines is so set on convincing passengers the beleaguered Boeing 737 Max planes are safe to fly , it plans to give tours and Q-and-A sessions.  Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)  1. Supreme Court  Amy Coney Barrett is the newest Supreme Court associate justice. Barrett's nomination was confirmed by the Senate , and the White House held a constitutional swearing-in ceremony last night. Chief Justice John Roberts will administer Barrett's judicial oath swearing-in today. It only took one month for Barrett to reach the bench after her nomination following the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The court now holds a 6-3 conservative majority, and the consequences of that ratio could come into play almost immediately. The Supreme Court is poised to make key decisions soon about President Trump's taxes, several election cases, and cases regarding abortion law.  Avlon: Republicans have been trying to 'pack courts' for years  Avlon: Republicans have been trying to 'pack courts' for years 03:16  Avlon: Republicans have been trying to 'pack courts' for years  2. Coronavirus  JUST WATCHED US averaging nearly 69,000 new Covid-19 cases per day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US averaging nearly 69,000 new Covid-19 cases per day 02:54  3. Election 2020  JUST WATCHED Why these images of ballots in dumpsters aren't proof of fraud Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why these images of ballots in dumpsters aren't proof of fraud 03:08  4. China  JUST WATCHED Chinese leaders meet to chart economic course Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chinese leaders meet to chart economic course 02:50  5. NASA  NASA has exciting news: There may be more water on the moon than previously believed , including on its sunlit side. Researchers have long thought there could be water on the moon's sunlit side, but recent data gathered by NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter has confirmed it. Why does it matter? If there is water on the moon, it could be a resource in deep space exploration and missions like NASA's return of humans to the lunar surface through the Artemis program. It also changes scientists' understanding of the moon's surface, how it works, and what's within it.  JUST WATCHED First ever 'road map' of the moon released Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First ever 'road map' of the moon released 01:11  BREAKFAST BROWSE  Washington Football Team coach Ron Rivera rings the bell after completing his last round of cancer treatments  Here are the American Music Awards nominations  Families are bored, so Monopoly sales are soaring  JUST WATCHED This is the only chess tournament for kids with disabilities Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This is the only chess tournament for kids with disabilities 03:17  Tennis great Rafael Nadal finishes 6th in a professional golf event  Asteroid Bennu has been hanging out with Earth for over a million years  It's been here all this time but has never hung out with us? ... Oh, wait.  JUST WATCHED See NASA spacecraft successfully land on an asteroid Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See NASA spacecraft successfully land on an asteroid 01:08  TODAY'S NUMBER  $4 million  That's about how much the Treasury Department has refunded the FDNY World Trade Center Health Program, which provides medical care to 9/11 first responders. The money, which had been withheld by the administration , has been the subject of contention between New York officials and the federal agency.  JUST WATCHED Denis Leary reflects on 9/11 and why New York will be stronger after the pandemic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Denis Leary reflects on 9/11 and why New York will be stronger after the pandemic 16:58  TODAY'S QUOTE  "Responding to climate change is no longer a constraint on economic growth."  Yoshihide Suga, who says the country is Japan's new Prime Minister,, who says the country is aiming to have zero emissions and be carbon neutral by 2050  JUST WATCHED Japan's town with no waste Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Japan's town with no waste 04:08  TODAY'S WEATHER  Hurricane Zeta makes landfall in Mexico  Zeta has struck the Yucatán Peninsula as a Category 1 hurricane , bringing heavy rains and a storm surge threat. Zeta will likely lose energy over the next day, but it could remain a Category 1 as it moves across the Gulf Coast to make landfall tomorrow evening between the Mississippi River Delta and Mobile, Alabama.  JUST WATCHED Hurricane force winds impacting multiple US regions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hurricane force winds impacting multiple US regions 02:43  AND FINALLY  Just a little scream 5 things to know for October 27: SCOTUS, coronavirus, election, China, NASA