If your day doesn't start until you're up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.  (CNN) The pandemic isn't getting any better, and if you're rethinking those holiday plans you've made, plenty of airlines and hotel chains are offering flexible cancellation or rebooking options . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day .  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)  1. Coronavirus  2. White House transition  JUST WATCHED Mitch McConnell publicly acknowledges Biden-Harris win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mitch McConnell publicly acknowledges Biden-Harris win 03:28  3. Government hack  US officials are still trying to make sense of a serious data breach that has affected multiple federal agencies , including the Departments of Homeland Security, Agriculture and Commerce. While the investigation is ongoing, officials suspect it was carried out by a group of Russian hackers through SolarWinds, a technology company whose products are used by a number of federal civilian agencies for network management. The National Security Council and the Cyber Response Group are meeting daily to determine the scope of the hack, what data may have been exposed, and just how dangerous the effects may be. However, Russia's suspected involvement in the hack raises questions about previous security breaches, and of course calls to mind Russian efforts to infiltrate the 2020 US electoral process. Moscow has so far denied any "offensive operations in the cyber domain."  JUST WATCHED US agencies investigating hack of government networks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US agencies investigating hack of government networks 02:14  4. El Salvador  An asylum agreement between the United States and El Salvador is ready to go into effect , and would send some migrants requesting asylum at the US border to El Salvador to seek protection instead. The so-called Asylum Cooperative Agreement is part of the Department of Homeland Security's ongoing effort to reroute asylum seekers to Central American countries. The US had struck agreements with Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, but only the agreement with Guatemala ever really got off the ground until now. Immigration advocates have criticized these policies, saying they put migrants in further danger.  5. Hungary  Hungary's parliament has passed a law narrowing the definition of "family" in the country's constitution , effectively barring same-sex couples from adopting children. The new law defines marriage as between a man and a woman and says that, in a relationship with children, "the mother is a woman, the father is a man." LGBTQ rights groups and the EU community at large have decried the decision, which is the latest in a line of anti-LGBTQ decisions made under the administration of Prime Minister Victor Orban. In May, Hungary made it illegal for transgender and intersex people to change their gender on identity documents, and Orban and his ruling Fidesz party are notably against the legalization of same-sex marriage. Human rights organization Transgender Europe has called on the EU to address Hungary's recent anti-LGBTQ motions.  BREAKFAST BROWSE  The University of Florida basketball player who collapsed mid-game over the weekend is breathing on his own and talking  'The Voice' has crowned a new winner  Fake eggs are being used to track turtle poaching  Gmail suffers another email outage  A man played the same numbers on the same day on 160 lottery tickets. He won $800,000  TODAY'S NUMBER  256,000  TODAY'S QUOTE  "She sees the mailbox continue to fill up with bills. Bills that have never stopped coming. The bills are as unrelenting as a shark that smells blood in the water. The end is near."  Business owner Steven Klein, who wrote an emotional obituary , who wrote an emotional obituary for his beloved Michigan bowling alley . Because of the ups and downs of the pandemic, Klein says he's not sure if the bowling alley will recover.  TODAY'S WEATHER  JUST WATCHED Severity of nor'easter extreme for parts of the Northeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severity of nor'easter extreme for parts of the Northeast 03:17  AND FINALLY  How much excellence can you fit in one room?  CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story had the incorrect date in the headline. 5 things to know for December 11: Pandemic, transition, government hack, El Salvador, Hungary