If your day doesn't start until you're up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.  (CNN) Medical experts don't want you to travel for Thanksgiving -- and neither does the weather, apparently. Storm systems are set to impact millions during this holiday week.  Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)  1. Coronavirus  2. Election 2020  JUST WATCHED Biden adviser previews first Cabinet picks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden adviser previews first Cabinet picks 06:39  3. Economy  Two crucial pandemic unemployment assistance programs are about to run out, and they could leave 12 million Americans blowing in the wind just after Christmas . About 7.3 million independent contractors, gig workers, freelancers and self-employed people will lose benefits provided by the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program. Beyond that, the Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, which provides 13 more weeks of payments after traditional state benefits are exhausted, is also set to expire. Some 4.6 million recipients will see these extra payments disappear unless Congress can hammer out extension measures or another stimulus package. Retailers are also worried possible shutdowns amid the worsening pandemic could eat into holiday shopping revenue, and some are lobbying states to stay open as Black Friday approaches  JUST WATCHED It's official: Black Friday is irrelevant Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH It's official: Black Friday is irrelevant 02:36  4. Venezuela  Many Latin American countries have closed their official border crossings to curb the spread of coronavirus, but human rights groups and government officials say these restrictions have created more dangerous conditions for women trying to flee struggling, economically bereft places like Venezuela. Refugees fleeing Venezuela often cross the border into Colombia, but with more border restrictions, many are forced to pursue unregulated paths. Since the start of the pandemic, humanitarian agencies like the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees say there has been a marked increase in gender-based violence along border regions, and homicides in Venezuelan border zones are up by 28.7% from April to June, compared to that period in 2019.  5. Ethiopia  JUST WATCHED Why are there fears of civil war in Ethiopia? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are there fears of civil war in Ethiopia? 03:07  BREAKFAST BROWSE  Pat Quinn, cofounder of the viral ALS Ice Bucket Challenge, has died  JUST WATCHED Your ALS Ice Bucket money goes to ... (2015) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Your ALS Ice Bucket money goes to ... (2015) 01:42  Who won what at the American Music Awards  Facial recognition software is learning to identify cows and bears, too  JUST WATCHED Is this facial recognition app going too far? We tested it Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is this facial recognition app going too far? We tested it 02:33  More restaurants are offering full-blown Thanksgiving meals to go  Canadian officials warn drivers not to let moose lick their cars  TODAY'S NUMBER  300  That's how many homicides the Los Angeles Police Department has reported so far this year. The LAPD says that's the highest rate it has seen in more than a decade and a significant increase over the 257 homicides reported in all of 2019.  TODAY'S QUOTE  "Some people are mad at it bc some folks are very sensitive to examining and exploring gender roles in society. Perhaps for some people it provokes some anger or insecurity around masculinity/femininity/etc. If it does, then maybe that's part of the point."  Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who shared her thoughts via an Instagram story , who shared her thoughts via an Instagram story about singer Harry Styles donning a dress for his recent Vogue cover  TODAY'S WEATHER  JUST WATCHED Early week weather woes could impact travel plans Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Early week weather woes could impact travel plans 02:17  AND FINALLY  Two precious creatures 5 things to know for November 23: Coronavirus, election, economy, Venezuela, Ethiopia