(CNN Business) Among tweets containing baseless claims about election results, Fox Business host Maria Bartiromo echoed a rallying cry of many prominent conservative voices in a tweet shortly after Election Day: "I will be leaving [Twitter] soon and going to Parler. Please open an account on @parler right away."  Others who've been active on the alternative social network Parler in recent weeks include Fox News host Sean Hannity, radio personality Mark Levin, far-right activist Laura Loomer, Senator Ted Cruz and Congressman Devin Nunes. Eric Trump also has an account verified by Parler as does Donald Trump's presidential campaign.  A substantial number of users have followed these voices onto the platform, fueled by complaints over actions major social media platforms have taken against election misinformation and false allegations of voter fraud, such as disputing claims with fact-check labels. Twitter, in particular, took aggressive action on many of President Trump's tweets during the election. At one point, the social network applied warning labels to more than a third of Trump's tweets after polls closed. Some of Trump's tweets were hidden behind a warning label which users had to click through before being able to read what they said.  Amid rising turmoil in social media, alternative social network Parler is gaining with prominent political conservatives who claim their voices are being silenced by Silicon Valley giants.  Parler, founded in 2018 by John Matze and Jared Thomson, bills itself as "unbiased social media" and a place where people can "speak freely and express yourself openly without fear of being 'deplatformed' for your views," according to its website and App Store description. It looks like a mashup of Twitter and Instagram, with its main feed, follower counts and ways to share posts and links.  It's also rife with misinformation, including a stream of baseless allegations of voter fraud, such as false assertions that "millions" of votes were either lost or switched from Donald Trump to Joe Biden.  Read More Angered by Facebook and Twitter, conservatives jump to alternatives