Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a vice president at New America and a professor of practice at Arizona State University. He is senior editor of the Coronavirus Daily Brief and author of the new book " Trump and His Generals: The Cost of Chaos. " The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own; view more opinion at CNN.  It took days for Biden to be declared the winner of the presidential election because the race was tight in key battleground states, but still he won, and as commander in chief he has broad latitude to put forward his own foreign policy and national security agenda.  Biden needs to assemble the right team and adopt policies that can restore America's global reputation , reassert its leadership of the alliance of liberal democracies and expunge the cramped and counterproductive "America First" policies of the Trump administration.  Here's who Biden should select for the key posts:  There was no "blue wave" that some had predicted and Republicans may well retain control of the Senate, so Biden will have to pick his confirmation battles carefully as he selects his cabinet.  She is also widely respected on both sides of the aisle, so much so that Trump's first secretary of defense, Jim Mattis, wanted Flournoy to be his top deputy at the Pentagon . Flournoy went to meet with a couple of officials on the Trump transition team, but in the end, she decided to drop out of consideration for the job given her misgivings about Trump.  Biden should advance Flournoy's nomination to be secretary of defense as soon as is feasible.  For secretary of state, Biden should pick Susan Rice. The new President seriously considered Rice as his running mate. He worked closely with her during the Obama administration when she was national security adviser. Rice has the requisite experience to re-energize the State Department, where morale has suffered under Trump : he has often presented the department as part of a purported "deep state," and many senior diplomats have departed as a result.  If she were tapped for the role, Rice would likely get some tough questions during her Senate confirmation hearing about the 2012 terrorist attack on the US consulate in Benghazi, Libya, during which four Americans were killed. But the statute of limitations has long run out on this pseudo-scandal, which revolves around the fact that immediately after the Benghazi attack Rice recited Obama administration talking points about the incident that turned out to be inaccurate  Tony Blinken has worked closely with Biden for decades. He served as both deputy national security adviser and deputy secretary of state during the Obama administration, and he would be the best choice for national security adviser, since he understands how to make the interagency process work well and Biden trusts him implicitly . Jake Sullivan, who served as Biden's national security adviser when he was vice president , would make a strong deputy national security adviser.  Trump has consistently undermined the US intelligence community. To fix that, Biden needs to install an adept leader as the director of national intelligence to coordinate the work of the 17 US intelligence agencies Avril Haines was tapped by Biden to run his foreign policy and national security transition team and is both a former deputy director of the CIA and deputy national security adviser for Obama. Haines has the intelligence experience and political savvy to be an effective director of national intelligence.  The Trump administration has turned the once-important job of US ambassador to the United Nations into a Trivial Pursuit question. At the beginning of his administration Trump selected a national figure, former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, to be his UN ambassador. Quick: Who can name today's American ambassador to the UN? It is Kelly Craft , a hitherto obscure diplomat whose main qualification for the job appears to be the large sums she and her husband have donated to the 2016 Trump campaign. Two years ago, the Trump administration downgraded the UN ambassador position to a non-cabinet level role -- as it was during both Bush administrations. It is a job that was once held by diplomatic heavy hitters such as Richard Holbrooke and Susan Rice.  The UN ambassador job should be reinstated to its former status to show that the Biden team is serious about re-engaging with the UN. The former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, Pete Buttigieg , who ran for the Democratic nomination and is now on the Biden transition team, would be an excellent pick for this position. Buttigieg speaks several languages , including Arabic, Dari, French, Italian and Spanish, which would make him quite a hit at the UN. If he were to be selected and confirmed, he would be only the second person who identifies as gay to serve in an American cabinet.  Biden should also follow an honorable post-9/11 bipartisan tradition when it comes to counterterrorism as was the case even during the Trump administration which, until 2017, kept National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) Director Nick Rasmussen, who held that role during the Obama administration. The current NCTC director, Christopher Miller , a former Special Forces officer, was Trump's senior director for counterterrorism at the White House and is well qualified to remain in his current position.  JUST WATCHED See the moment CNN called the race for Joe Biden Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See the moment CNN called the race for Joe Biden 00:59  This national security team would signal to the world that Biden wants to restore America's place in the world as the first among equals in a rules-based international order that has served American interests so well since World War II.  (Disclosure: I have reported on national security issues in Washington DC for more than two-and-half decades, so I know many of the current and former officials mentioned in this story; some well and others only slightly.)  Here's what policies Biden should pursue:  The New York Times reports that as soon as Biden takes office, he will begin "ramping up testing, ensuring a steady supply of protective equipment, distributing a vaccine and securing money from Congress for schools and hospitals." And Biden would lead by example, which Trump is incapable of doing, by wearing a mask in public consistently and only attending events with proper social distancing.  But Biden could go further by creating a new White House position for the Covid-19 era, a deputy national security adviser for health who is a public health expert. This would do more than simply restore the pandemic directorate at the National Security Council which was dissolved by the Trump administration and which Biden has pledged to bring back , and it would help to coordinate the government response to the most serious public health crisis in a century.  Biden's national security team should also bring badly needed regular order to American national security decisions that are now often made by presidential tweet rather than by the deliberations of the National Security Council.  To give one telling example: In October, commander-in-chief Trump tweeted that all American soldiers should be going home from Afghanistan by Christmas , and his national security adviser, Robert O'Brien, said that there will be a drawdown from Afghanistan from the 4,500 troops currently there to 2,500 soldiers by early 2021.  But General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs, told NPR that on the matter of withdrawing troops from Afghanistan , "Robert O'Brien or anyone else can speculate as they see fit. I'm not going to engage in speculation. I'm going to engage in the rigorous analysis of the situation based on the conditions and the plans that I am aware of and my conversations with the president."  Does anyone have a clue what the Trump administration's Afghan policy is? The confusion surely only benefits the Taliban, whose main aim is the withdrawal of all US troops from Afghanistan. Trump officials are now negotiating some kind of peace deal with the Taliban , but they have zero leverage since Trump is already volunteering that all US troops will leave soon anyway.  Biden, who had long been a skeptic of large-scale US troop deployments in Afghanistan , should retain a light Special Operations Forces footprint for counterterrorism missions in Afghanistan and he should say publicly that the US commitment to Afghanistan is a durable one, rather than making constantly muddled statements, as President Trump has done, about US intentions in Afghanistan that confuse America's allies and give comfort to her enemies.  As soon as he assumes office, Biden has promised that he will reverse the Trump administration's moves to exit the World Health Organization (WHO) , which made some early missteps combatting the coronavirus by not challenging Chinese falsehoods about the virus when it first emerged. This is the right move since the WHO is still the only body that can respond around the world to what is, after all, a global pandemic.  What is the strategic benefit of all this geopolitical trumpery to the United States? It has never been clear, although it's certainly long been a key aim of Russian President Vladimir Putin to weaken the NATO alliance.  Biden should reaffirm American commitments to NATO which Trump's then-secretary of defense, Jim Mattis, publicly described in 2017 as the "most successful and powerful military alliance in modern history," something that Mattis' former boss has never seemed to understand.  At the same time, Biden should make it clear to Putin that the Russian leader's bromance with Trump was an aberration in US foreign policy and that the US will take a strong stand on any interference in American electoral processes--including by indicting and sanctioning any of Putin's allies who are involved in these activities.  To its credit, the Trump administration took a skeptical view of China's military expansionism and its unfair trade practices. Biden should continue with this, but should do more to publicly criticize China's imprisonment of some one million Uyghurs—who the Chinese government claim are only being held in " re-education camps " -- and China's deconstruction of a democratic Hong Kong.  Get our free weekly newsletter Sign up for CNN Opinion's new newsletter. Join us on Twitter and Facebook  Above all, Biden should be, as he has promised, the leader of all Americans, not just the ones who voted for him. Can Joe Biden clean up the mess?