CNN host Van Jones is the CEO of the REFORM Alliance, a criminal justice organization. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.  (CNN) If absentee ballot trends continue to trend blue, Democrats may secure a political victory in the race for the presidency. But we also wanted a moral victory. We wanted an overwhelming repudiation of horrific policies -- like separating migrant children from their parents at the border -- and hurtful rhetoric. We did not get that.  That does not mean that we lost -- or even that we should be discouraged. As I survey the landscape the morning after, and as millions of votes are still being counted, I see five points of optimism:  1) President-elect Joe Biden is still a real possibility. The former vice president is currently leading in Arizona and Nevada. CNN has projected Biden victories in Michigan and Wisconsin. And I believe he still has a shot at Pennsylvania as well. That means Biden could be the next president of the United States. He also . The former vice president is currently leading in Arizona and Nevada. CNN has projected Biden victories in Michigan and Wisconsin. And I believe he still has a shot at Pennsylvania as well. That means Biden could be the next president of the United States. He also racked up a historic win in the popular vote, breaking President Barack Obama's 2008 record for total votes cast. Though the Electoral College determines whether a candidate wins, the popular vote determines the winner's political mandate.  2) Leading Republicans are breaking with Trump on a critical issue. The nightmare scenario was always a close and contested election where a sitting president refused to concede -- and one party refused to leave office. While Trump has made outright false claims and demanded that states stop counting votes, many in this party is not backing him. So far -- and this could change -- prominent Republicans from former New Jersey Gov. . The nightmare scenario was always a close and contested election where a sitting president refused to concede -- and one party refused to leave office. While Trump has made outright false claims and demanded that states stop counting votes, many in this party is not backing him. So far -- and this could change -- prominent Republicans from former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie to Florida Sen. Marco Rubio put country first and are demanding we count every vote, even if that means their standard bearer might lose.  3) The election could produce both an administration and introspection for the Democrats. Normally parties get one or the other. Either they win the election and get to govern the executive branch. Or they lose, and benefit from a deep, hard look at where they went wrong. Ironically, because Democrats' landslide did not materialize and yet they still appear well-poised to win the White House, we may benefit from both. We may get to show the country how we would respond to major challenges, while still learning from Trump's Normally parties get one or the other. Either they win the election and get to govern the executive branch. Or they lose, and benefit from a deep, hard look at where they went wrong. Ironically, because Democrats' landslide did not materialize and yet they still appear well-poised to win the White House, we may benefit from both. We may get to show the country how we would respond to major challenges, while still learning from Trump's significant inroads among Black and brown communities. Progressives, here are five reasons to be optimistic