Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN.  (CNN) On Monday, with the US on the verge of reaching the solemn number of 200,000 dead from Covid-19, Donald Trump appeared on Fox News where the topic of the virus was raised. Did Trump express sympathy for the heartbreaking losses caused to families across the nation from this deadly pandemic? Nope, instead he patted himself on the back for doing what he called "a phenomenal job" in handling Covid-19, giving himself an "A+." The only criticism Trump would offer was regarding the public relations for the virus, saying in that area, "I give myself a D." He blamed the low grade on "fake news."  Dean Obeidallah  On Wednesday, the number of Americans who have perished from this virus reached 200,000 , and they all deserve a better response from the President. They are not a PR crisis to be managed — they were someone's loved one. They were beloved mothers and fathers, sons and daughters. They were grandparents who taught their grandchildren about life, teachers who made students smarter, coaches who pushed their players to be better, deli owners who remained open so neighborhoods would have food during lockdowns. They were doctors, nurses, police officers and others who worked while many of us were able to stay safe in our homes. They were the apple of someone's eye, a soul mate, a reason for living. The people who died were not only like us, they often were the best of us.  I knew three people who died from the virus, which is not surprising since I live in New York City, which at one point was the epicenter of this deadly pandemic. One of the three was Hal Willner, the son of Holocaust survivors who was a funny, offbeat music producer — responsible for the music you heard in Saturday Night Live sketches. Willner was a former co-worker from my days on the production staff of SNL.  Another was a childhood friend from Paramus, New Jersey, named James "Jimmie" LaBarbiera, who died in April of the virus. Jimmie wasn't a PR crisis that Trump mismanaged, he was the father of two teenage sons, someone who always had a smile on his face and fanatically cheered for the New York Mets.  The stories of those taken by Covid could fill books — and should. Kimberley Chavez Lopez Byrd , a beloved teacher in Arizona who, despite following safety protocols at her school, contracted the virus and died. Abdelfattah Abdrabbo , a Palestinian immigrant who came to America 45 years ago in pursuit of the American dream, achieving that by opening a small import/export store in Detroit along with raising six children who went on to become a doctor and a teacher, among other professions. Hockey coach Tyler Amburgey from the Dallas, Texas, area died in August, at 29, leaving behind his wife and young daughter. Trump views 200,000 Covid-19 deaths as a PR problem. We should view them as someone's loved one