If your day doesn't start until you're up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.  (CNN) More than 60% of Americans changed their Thanksgiving plans due to Covid-19 , a new poll shows. Whether you're doing turkey or takeout, have a safe and happy holiday. We'll be back in your inbox Friday morning.  Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)  1. Coronavirus  2. Election 2020  JUST WATCHED Biden unveils first cabinet picks, declares 'America is back' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden unveils first cabinet picks, declares 'America is back' 02:55  3. Immigration  The Justice Department is putting new pressure on immigrants facing deportation in the US by asking them to file for deportation relief within a matter of weeks. That's an unusually fast time line, especially since the pandemic has slowed down the processes immigrants usually go through to stay in the country legally. Normally, people have a chance to ask a judge to let them stay in the US by arguing they qualify for asylum or another legal option. This rapid new deadline has immigration attorneys scrambling, and some have called the move politically motivated. Meanwhile, a new federal filing reveals US Customs and Border Protection held more than five dozen children, some under the age of 1, in facilities along the US-Mexico border for more than three days during the last two months. The extended detention of minors has been a particularly urgent topic for immigration advocates in the past year as the number of apprehensions at the border began to rise.  4. China  China's Ministry of Justice has drafted new rules that would restrict how foreign religious groups and worshipers operate . The draft rules are intended to prevent the spreading of what the government calls "religious extremism" or use of religion "to undermine China's national or ethnic unity." They could usher in strict new requirements for holding services, including describing the primary religious texts used, listing the nationality and visa status of all attendees and obtaining special permits. Chinese President Xi Jinping has historically been harsh on organized religion and has overseen a major clampdown on Uyghurs and other Muslim minority groups, as well as other campaigns against Christians and Tibetan Buddhists. Meanwhile, India has banned more than 40 new Chinese apps on the grounds of national security. It's the latest sign of declining relations between the two major powers.  JUST WATCHED Leaked records expose China's Xinjiang camps Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Leaked records expose China's Xinjiang camps 06:57  5. Opioids  Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, has pleaded guilty to three federal criminal charges related to the company's role in creating the nation's opioid crisis . The plea deal, announced in October, includes the largest penalties ever levied against a pharmaceutical manufacturer, with fines of more than $5.5 billion. Purdue Pharma declared bankruptcy last year and will be dissolved as part of the deal to form a new company that operates solely in the public interest. The company says by pleading guilty, it is taking responsibility for past misconduct. Drug overdoses steal thousands of American lives every year, including 70,000 in 2018 alone, according to the CDC. The majority of these deaths -- 70% in 2018 -- are caused by prescription or illicit opioids like OxyContin.  JUST WATCHED Purdue Pharma files for bankruptcy (2019) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Purdue Pharma files for bankruptcy (2019) 00:50  BREAKFAST BROWSE  Here are your 2021 Grammy nominations  JUST WATCHED Beyoncé drops new visual album (July) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beyoncé drops new visual album (July) 01:04  Frank's RedHot owner buys Cholula in $800 million deal  Pope Francis meets with NBA players to discuss social injustice  JUST WATCHED Pope Francis meets with NBA players to discuss social issues Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis meets with NBA players to discuss social issues 01:55  French man fined for breaching lockdown to 'smash a guy's face in'  TODAY'S NUMBER  $157 billion  That's how much the worsening pandemic will likely cost the airline industry , according to the International Air Transport Association. That's much worse than previous estimates.  JUST WATCHED Watch how airlines disinfect their planes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch how airlines disinfect their planes 01:09  TODAY'S QUOTE  "Sitting in a hospital bed, watching my husband's heart break as he tried to hold the shattered pieces of mine, I realized that the only way to begin to heal is to first ask, 'Are you OK?'"  Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, writing about , writing about a miscarriage she suffered in July . In an opinion piece for The New York Times, the former actress described the difficulty of losing her second child with Prince Harry.  JUST WATCHED Duchess of Sussex discusses miscarriage in opinion piece Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Duchess of Sussex discusses miscarriage in opinion piece 02:24  TODAY'S WEATHER  JUST WATCHED Thanksgiving travel hampered by potential severe weather in the Southeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thanksgiving travel hampered by potential severe weather in the Southeast 02:08  AND FINALLY  Some Thanksgiving mood music 5 things to know for November 25: Covid-19, Biden, immigration, China, opioids