David Miliband is president and CEO of the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian relief organization. He is a former Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom. The opinions expressed here are his own. Read more opinion at CNN.  (CNN) Before the start of the new fiscal year on October 1, President Donald Trump was legally bound to decide how many of the world's 26 million refugees will be offered one of the prized and rare places in America's refugee resettlement program. For refugees admitted, the program is their chance to begin their lives anew. And for America it is an opportunity to live out its commitment to be a beacon to the world's most vulnerable and persecuted.  US decisions in this area have led the world -- for better and for worse -- and there is no shortage of deserving cases of people fleeing persecution, from Syria to Hong Kong to El Salvador. However, last Wednesday's White House submission to Congress proposed a refugee cap of an all-time low of 15,000. President Trump has yet to sign this new Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions into law.  Last year, the administration took the controversial step of doing away with priorities based on regions with the greatest need and created four new categories for refugee admissions: refugees fleeing religious persecution; Iraqis whose lives are in danger because they supported US missions abroad; refugees from Northern Central America, and refugees meeting various criteria under an umbrella "Other" category. Since then the administration has made additional commitments to provide safety to those fleeing political persecution in Hong Kong.  The administration has largely abdicated these commitments. Though 5,000 slots were allotted for those fleeing religious persecution last year, these people have been left out in the cold on a global scale. World Relief found that the admission of Christian refugees from Iran, Iraq, and Myanmar—countries where Christians often face severe persecution on the basis of their faith—is on track to decline 97%, 95% and 94%, respectively, between 2015 and the end of this fiscal year. Trump's refugee cap puts US credibility and security at risk