If your day doesn't start until you're up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.  (CNN) This year's historic wildfire season just won't let up. New blazes in Colorado have destroyed homes and forced hundreds of people to evacuate , and new fires are burning in Utah, too.  Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)  1. Coronavirus  The fall surge is upon us. The US is averaging more than 55,000 new coronavirus cases a day , and 10 states reported their highest single-day case counts last Friday. Now, only two states, Hawaii and Vermont, are seeing a significant improvement in their numbers. It's the same story in Europe, where citizens and local leaders in the UK, France and Spain are balking at another round of potential restrictions . Italy also just announced new coronavirus measures. Meanwhile, US drug company Vaxart is under investigation for allegedly exaggerating its involvement in the US government's Operation Warp Speed vaccine program. The company's announcement that it had been picked to get vaccine development funding drove up its stock price, but the Department of Health and Human Services says Vaxart wasn't chosen.  This area was already in isolation. Then came the Covid-19 lockdown  This area was already in isolation. Then came the Covid-19 lockdown 03:14  This area was already in isolation. Then came the Covid-19 lockdown  2. Stimulus  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says she and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, the Trump administration's lead negotiator, have until the end of the day tomorrow to reach a coronavirus stimulus agreement if they want a bill settled by Election Day because of the legislative process that must play out in the House and Senate before a deal is done. Democrats hope this quick push means the Republican-led Senate may capitulate to their desires for a big-ticket bill. But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell still wants a leaner deal and says there may be Senate votes early this week on piecemeal issues like a stand-alone Paycheck Protection Program bill to help small businesses.  JUST WATCHED Pelosi: Negotiators need to freeze framework of stimulus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pelosi: Negotiators need to freeze framework of stimulus 01:46  3. Election 2020  JUST WATCHED As the election gets closer, who's winning the legal war over voting? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH As the election gets closer, who's winning the legal war over voting? 04:54  4. Kidnapping plot  JUST WATCHED New video appears to show Michigan suspects in training Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New video appears to show Michigan suspects in training 03:25  5. France  Demonstrators crowded the streets of French neighborhoods this weekend to mourn the death of teacher Samuel Paty and laud the importance of free speech. Paty was beheaded on Friday in a case that is now being handled by the national anti-terrorist prosecutor. Investigators believe Paty was killed because he organized a lesson on freedom of expression around the caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed published by the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. The attacker has been identified as an 18-year-old Russian refugee of Chechen origin. He was shot dead in the same area where the attack took place.  BREAKFAST BROWSE  The Los Angeles Dodgers and the Tampa Bay Rays are going to the World Series  NASA and Nokia are putting a 4G network on the moon  JUST WATCHED Here's why 5G is the future Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's why 5G is the future 01:38  Chicago is the 'rattiest city' in America for the 6th year in a row  Tired of pumpkin spice? Why not try eating, you know, actual pumpkin stuff?  You can now rent a private AMC theater for just $99  Yeah, you could watch a movie ... or with those comfy recliners, you could just take one big collective nap  TODAY'S NUMBER  7  That's how many people have been killed by sharks in Australia this year , the most deaths since 1934. Australia is a hot spot for climate change, and experts say that could be a factor.  JUST WATCHED Drone footage shows surfer's close encounter with shark Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Drone footage shows surfer's close encounter with shark 01:14  TODAY'S QUOTE  "This wouldn't have been possible without the network of people who came together."  Chambers-Courtier family after Holly Courtier, a 38-year-old hiker and mother, was A statement from theafter Holly Courtier, a 38-year-old hiker and mother, was found safe after going missing in Zion National Park for nearly two weeks. It still isn't clear what Courtier was doing or how she survived in the vast park for so long.  TODAY'S WEATHER  JUST WATCHED West looking for wildfire relief Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH West looking for wildfire relief 02:25  AND FINALLY  Anything good on? 5 things to know for October 19: Coronavirus, stimulus, election, Whitmer, France