On this day, Oct. 27 ...  2018: A gunman shoots and kills 11 congregants and wounds six others at Pittsburgh’s Tree of Life synagogue in the deadliest attack on Jews in U.S. history. (Authorities would say the suspect, Robert Bowers, raged against Jews during and after the rampage. )  Also on this day:  1787: The first of the Federalist Papers, a series of essays calling for ratification of the United States Constitution, is published.  The first of the Federalist Papers, a series of essays calling for ratification of the United States Constitution, is published. 1858: The 26th president of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt, is born in New York City.  The 26th president of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt, is born in New York City. 1904: The first rapid transit subway, the IRT, is inaugurated in New York City.  The first rapid transit subway, the IRT, is inaugurated in New York City. 1914: Author-poet Dylan Thomas is born in Swansea, Wales.  Author-poet Dylan Thomas is born in Swansea, Wales. 1947: “You Bet Your Life,” a comedy quiz show starring Groucho Marx, premieres on ABC Radio. (It later would become a television show on NBC.)  “You Bet Your Life,” a comedy quiz show starring Groucho Marx, premieres on ABC Radio. (It later would become a television show on NBC.) 1954: U.S. Air Force Col. Benjamin O. Davis Jr. is promoted to brigadier general, the first black officer to achieve that rank in the USAF.  U.S. Air Force Col. Benjamin O. Davis Jr. is promoted to brigadier general, the first black officer to achieve that rank in the USAF. 1954: Walt Disney’s first television program, titled “Disneyland” after the yet-to-be completed theme park, premieres on ABC.  Walt Disney’s first television program, titled “Disneyland” after the yet-to-be completed theme park, premieres on ABC. 1962: During the Cuban Missile Crisis, a U-2 reconnaissance aircraft is shot down while flying over Cuba, killing the pilot, U.S. Air Force Maj. Rudolf Anderson Jr.  During the Cuban Missile Crisis, a U-2 reconnaissance aircraft is shot down while flying over Cuba, killing the pilot, U.S. Air Force Maj. Rudolf Anderson Jr. 1978: Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin are named winners of the Nobel Peace Prize for their progress toward achieving a Middle East accord.  Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin are named winners of the Nobel Peace Prize for their progress toward achieving a Middle East accord. 1995: A sniper kills one soldier and wounds 18 others at Fort Bragg, N.C. (Paratrooper William J. Kreutzer would be convicted in the shootings and condemned to death; the sentence would be later commuted to life in prison.) This Day in History: Oct. 27