Good morning and welcome to Fox News First. Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...    FBI in possession of Hunter Biden's purported laptop, sources say  The FBI is in possession of the laptop purportedly belonging to Hunter Biden which allegedly contained emails revealing details of his foreign business dealings, including contacts in Ukraine and China, two senior administration officials told Fox News on Tuesday.  The FBI declined to confirm or deny the existence of an investigation into the laptop or the emails, as is standard practice.    Furthermore, Fox News has learned the FBI and Justice Department officials concur with an assessment from Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe that the laptop is not part of a Russian disinformation campaign targeting Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden.  Ratcliffe, on Monday, said that Hunter Biden’s laptop and the emails on it were “not part of some Russian disinformation campaign," despite claims from House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif.    “Let me be clear: the intelligence community doesn’t believe that because there is no intelligence that supports that," Ratcliffe said. "And we have shared no intelligence with Adam Schiff, or any member of Congress.” Ratcliffe went on to say it was “simply not true.”  “If you thought it wasn’t possible for Schiff to have any less credibility, DOJ just proved you wrong,” a senior intelligence official told Fox News. CLICK HERE FOR MORE ON OUR TOP STORY.    In other developments:  - Rep. Jim Jordan calls for special counsel investigation into Hunter Biden emails  - Piers Morgan blasts media silence over Hunter Biden scandal: Imagine if it was Don Jr.'s laptop  - Hannity sends cameras to Biden home, urges Dem nominee to 'come outside' and address Hunter scandal  - FBI says 'nothing to add' to DNI Ratcliffe assessment on Hunter Biden laptop, emails    Trump threatens to release interview with Lesley Stahl of CBS ahead of Sunday's '60 Minutes'  President Trump threatened to release an interview he granted "60 Minutes" correspondent Lesley Stahl ahead of Sunday's airing, suggesting he would expose how "fake and biased" the sitdown was.  Trump sat down Tuesday with the veteran journalist at the White House. The interview is set to air Sunday, along with interviews with Vice President Mike Pence, Democratic nominee former Vice President Joe Biden, and Democratic vice presidential nominee Sen. Kamala Harris.  The president said he is mulling scooping CBS News by sharing the interview before the network does.    "I am pleased to inform you that, for the sake of accuracy in reporting, I am considering posting my interview with Lesley Stahl of 60 Minutes, PRIOR TO AIRTIME!" Trump posted on Twitter. "This will be done so that everybody can get a glimpse of what a FAKE and BIASED interview is all about."  The president encouraged his Twitter followers to compare interviews with him to interviews with Biden.  "Everyone should compare this terrible Electoral Intrusion with the recent interviews of Sleepy Joe Biden!" Trump tweeted. CLICK HERE FOR MORE.    In other developments:  - Trump calls out Lesley Stahl for not wearing mask at White House following 'extremely hostile' interview  - Presidential debate host Kristen Welker: 4 things you need to know  - Trump slams debate moderator Welker as 'terrible,' 'totally partisan'  - Trump rips Steve Scully 'hack' claim following canceled debate: 'His bosses are furious at him!'    Houston police officer dead, another wounded; illegal immigrant suspect in custody  An illegal immigrant from El Salvador was in custody Tuesday after one Houston police officer was shot and killed and another wounded at a southwest Houston apartment complex, authorities said.  Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo confirmed the arrest and officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) later told Fox News that the suspect was in the U.S. illegally.    The slain officer was identified as Sgt. Harold Preston, a 41-year veteran of the force.  "We've lost just a wonderful human being," Acevedo said during a news conference at Memorial Hermann Hospital. “He is leading with men and women on streets, instead of choosing to sit in an office drinking coffee and reading the paper. That is the man he was — he is a man who lived with elderly parents to take care of them. As good as he was as a cop, he was a better human being, that is just the guy that he was and we are going to miss him.”    The wounded officer, identified by Mayor Sylvester Turner as Courtney Waller, is a three-year veteran of the department who was shot in an arm. He was expected to recover.    The suspect was identified as Elmer Rolando Manzano-Martinez, 51 (pictured above). ICE officials identified him as a "convicted criminal alien who is unlawfully present in the U.S."  Following his arrest Tuesday, ICE officials from the agency's Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) unit placed an immigration detainer with the Harris County Sheriff's Office, ICE said in a statement. CLICK HERE FOR MORE.    In other developments:  - Border Patrol arrests nearly 300 illegal immigrants in 18 hours  - Border Patrol finds 27 illegal immigrants trapped inside train cars in Texas  - Border Patrol agents stop smuggling case where child was separated from parents    CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP    TODAY'S MUST-READS:  - Human coronaviruses ‘inactivated’ by mouthwash, oral rinses: study  - Pollster who predicted 2016 result says Trump on track to win again with help of 'hidden' support  - BuzzFeed News panned for suggesting CNN's Toobin 'can't be the only one masturbating on Zoom calls'  - Radio host Michael Savage ripped for comments after Rush Limbaugh’s cancer update  - Delta passenger slaps flight attendant during argument over mask policy: report  - Clayton Kershaw delivers vintage performance to help Dodgers to Game 1 World Series win    THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS:  - Here are the fastest-growing jobs in every state this year: report  - Amazon says it will allow employees to work from home till June  - Buffett's firm to pay $4.1M fine for subsidiary's Iran sales  - Twitter enacts multiple changes around retweets and tweet recommendations ahead of US elections  - AMC warns investors of potential bankruptcy as company looks to raise cash through sale of 15 million shares    #The Flashback: CLICK HERE to find out what happened on "This Day in History.”    SOME PARTING WORDS  Tucker Carlson was wondering what’s happened to Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden on Tuesday’s “Tucker Carlson Tonight.” Biden, Carlson said, was last seen buying milkshakes in North Carolina a few days ago and hasn’t been seen since.    “Biden’s campaign team assures us there is no cause for concern tonight,” Carlson reported. “The final presidential debate is scheduled for Thursday night and he’s just preparing for that. Maybe Joe Biden really does need a week to prepare for a 90-minute debate moderated by an MSNBC correspondent.”    Not signed up yet for Fox News First? Click here to find out what you're missing.  Fox News’ Go Watch page is now available, providing visitors with Pay TV provider options in their area carrying Fox News Channel & Fox Business Network.    Fox News First was compiled by Fox News' Jack Durschlag. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! We’ll see you in your inbox first thing Thursday. FBI holding laptop allegedly containing Hunter Biden business emails: officials