This is a rush transcript from “Fox News Sunday” November 22, 2020. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.  CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Chris Wallace.  The CDC advises American against traveling this Thanksgiving, as  coronavirus cases overwhelm hospitals across the country and the death toll  rises.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL INSITUTE FOR ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS  DISEASES: Pause for a moment and do a determination of the risk-benefit  within your family group.  WALLACE (voice-over): State and local governments tightening restrictions  on restaurants, businesses, and social gatherings at the start of the  nation's busiest travel season.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm going to see my family Chicago and I'm so excited  to go.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think people should stay home. It gets lonely out  there though.  WALLACE: We'll talk with Dr. Tom Inglesby, head of the Center for Health  Security, about how to keep yourself safe as we wait for COVID vaccines.  Then, President-elect Biden's team expresses frustration over the delayed  transition.  JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT-ELECT: We don't have access to all the information  that we need to get from all the various agencies.  WALLACE: We'll ask Kate Bedingfield, senior advisor to the Biden  transition, how the delay will affect his ability to lead on day one.  Plus --  RUDY GIULIANI, PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ATTORNEY: They didn't elect Joe Biden.  WALLACE: We'll ask our Sunday panel about President Trump's continuing bid  to reverse the 2020 election. What are his chances?  And --  WILTON GREGORY, ARCHBISHOP OF WASHINGTON, D.C.: I thought about becoming a  priest before I thought about becoming Catholic.  WALLACE: The archbishop of Washington about to make history as the  nation's first African-American cardinal.  All, right now, on "FOX News Sunday".  (END VIDEOTAPE)  WALLACE (on camera): And hello again from FOX News in Washington.  This weekend, Americans are being urged to double down on the life-saving  measures such as social distancing and mask wearing as the death toll from  the coronavirus passes 250,000, and a record 195,000 new cases just on  Friday. The exploding numbers prompting the CDC to urge people not to  travel for Thanksgiving.  In a moment, we'll discuss the latest spike and the good news about  vaccines with Dr. Tom Inglesby, one of the nation's leading experts on  infectious disease.  But first, Mark Meredith reports on the tough choices Americans are facing  this holiday season.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm a college student, so I don't really have much of  a choice, but I think any unnecessary travel should be avoided.  MARK MEREDITH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Millions of Americans  weighing the risks of spending the holiday around the table with loved  ones.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We were kind of debating on what to do between getting  together with the whole family or just staying local.  MEREDITH: The demand for testing high, lines long. Here in Washington,  National Park set to open tomorrow as a mega testing site.  The number of COVID patients in hospitals doubling in the past month and  setting records every day. Overwhelming health care systems and leaving  front-line workers frustrated and fatigued.  JAMIE BROWN, MICHIGAN NURSES ASSOCIATION: The restrictions are absolutely  necessary right now. The pandemic is out of control.  MEREDITH: The heightened measures include some 37 states mandating masks,  encouraging residents to stay home and restricting businesses.  In Oregon, it's a two-week freeze. Philadelphia, a new ban on indoor dining  and in California a nighttime curfew taking effect overnight as cases there  hit 1 million and rising.  DR. PETER CHIN-HONG, INFECTIOUS DISEASE SPECIALIST: The rate of increase  in the surge is breathtaking and unexpected.  MEREDITH: Texas shattering its single day record this week with more than  12,000 new cases, but still resisting lockdowns.  GREG ABBOTT (R), TEXAS GOVERNOR: There are plenty of tools in the  toolboxes of local authorities to achieve the results that are needed.  MEREDITH: Meanwhile, a bipartisan group of governors in the Midwest where  cases are skyrocketing, urging folks to stick close to home to stop the  search.  ANDY BESHEAR (D), KENTUCKY GOVERNOR: No one wants Thanksgiving, which is  an amazing time, to become a super-spreader event.  (END VIDEOTAPE)  WALLACE: Many of those new restrictions are expected, at least for now, to  last two to four weeks.  We want to get the latest from Dr. Tom Inglesby, director of the Center for  Health Security at Johns Hopkins University.  Doctor, I want to start with some more numbers -- put them up on the  screen. More than 83,000 people are now hospitalized in this country.  That's a record high. Over 16,000 are in ICUs and more than 5,000 are on  ventilators.  Why are we seeing this new spike right now and how close are we to  overwhelming our health care system?  DR. TOM INGLESBY, JOHN HOPKINS BLOOMBERG SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH: Good  morning, Chris. Thanks for having me on your show.  We are seeing this new spike because of the gradual accumulation of choices  and policies over the last couple of months. This virus has the ability to  spread exponentially, meaning more and more rapidly if we let it, and  unlike the springtime, when the country really was acting kind of with  common purpose around March and April, at the start of this pandemic and  when the virus was located and comparatively fewer places, the epidemic now  is surging in almost every state in the country with the Midwest and the  Mountain West really being out really in front in terms of rapidly  accelerating numbers of cases.  So, it's not -- it's not confined to a few places, it's really spread  across the country. It's not just in big cities but it's in rural  locations, small towns. And so, that is adding up to record numbers of  hospitalizations and as you said, the pressure on hospitals is the highest  it's been since the beginning of the pandemic, with about a thousand  hospitals reporting this week that they're critically short on health care  workers or will be very soon, and that number will grow this week.  So it's a very, very serious moment for the country in terms of this  pandemic.  WALLACE: At least 37 states are now requiring people to wear masks in  public. But the debate over masks and partial or total closures, shutdowns,  is continuing.  Here is South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  GOV. KRISTI NOEM (R), SOUTH DAKOTA: I'm not in favor of mandating mask  wearing. I don't believe that I have the authority to mandate that and that  people can use their own personal responsibility to make a decision when it  comes to masks.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: What about the argument that government can recommend, but it  shouldn't be ordering people what to do or not to do?  INGLESBY: Well, we trust government to do things to keep us safe. So we  trust government to set speed limits in neighborhoods so we don't drive too  fast and risk, you know, injuring or killing kids who were playing in the  street and neighborhood.  So I think that would be the analogy I would think of here. I think there  are some times when it's really important for government to set the rules  and to ask people to follow them and I think this is one of those times. If  37 states can set mask mandates, then the set rest of the states can set  mask mandates as well, and they should.  WALLACE: Let me ask you about another aspect of this particular debate.  New York City just shut down its public school system, forcing more than 1  million students to stay at home.  But there is some growing evidence that in fact schools are not major  spreaders of the disease.  Here is CDC director, Dr. Robert Redfield, this week.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  DR. ROBERT REDFIELD, CDC DIRECTOR: The truth is for kids K-12, one of the  safest places they can be from our perspective is to remain in school.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: Doctor, what's the science? Are kids safer staying in school?  INGLESBY: So, it does look like at the K-8 level of school, that kids are  both at -- certainly at lower risk of serious disease and probably because  of the way school happens, smaller groups of kids, not mixing together, no  large assemblies, that they are safer than high schools or universities,  for example. We haven't had reports of major outbreaks driving transmission  in communities.  But on the other hand, we are not systematically enough collecting data  around the country right now. And schools that have made mitigation  measures have been able to decrease classroom density, have been able to  have kids wear masks, and assemblies, change pickup and drop-off, those  schools we think are doing better and are creating safer environments, but  not all schools have been able to do that. Not all schools have the  resources to put mitigation measures in place.  So I do think it's hard to have universal rules. I don't think we can go  that far, but in places where they put mitigation procedures in place and  community transmission in that particular school district is relatively  low. I do think those are safer environments. The problem is that now we  are seeing transmission levels across the country that are higher than  they've ever been since the start of this pandemic.  So, we are kind of entering in uncharted territory in many places, which  have enormous rates of spread. So we haven't seen those rates of spread in  other parts of the world, so we don't really have those places to learn  from, and I think we have to be very cautious about making judgments about  safety in schools when the rate gets so high in communities.  WALLACE: And then there is Thanksgiving. We are seeing already airports  with long lines of people waiting in line, going through security, getting  on planes.  Should people travel for Thanksgiving or not? And if they're bound to  anyway, what can they do to minimize their risk?  INGLESBY: So, I would recommend that people do not travel on Thanksgiving  for this particular holiday. I think if you look at the map of spread  across the country, you can see the risk. It's very visible.  And moving through airports or travel hubs, I think that will increase  people's risk, but even if they're driving from point-to-point,  unfortunately, we don't know if we're infected when we walk into a  gathering. CDC came out with data this week that said more than 50 percent  of infections that are happening are caused by people with no symptoms. So  I think the message for everyone is you can't assume that you don't have  the virus and you can't assume that the people who's home you're about to  enter don't have the virus, at this point in our pandemic.  And so, we really should discourage traveling and kind of stick with our  nuclear families, the people that we live with. If you are going to travel  to someone else's home for Thanksgiving, then if possible, you should spend  as much time outdoors when you're together. In some places, that may be  possible with the weather, other places not.  People should be wearing masks indoors when they're together and only  removing them when they're eating. We should probably keep meals short and  spend more time with masks on. And the smaller the gatherings, the better.  But in general, I would recommend against it. I love being with my family  on Thanksgiving, but this year, we're staying home, just our nuclear  family.  WALLACE: But, Dr. Scott Atlas, who is one of President Trump's top COVID-  19 officials, gave very different advice this week. Take a look.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  DR. SCOTT ATLAS, WHITE HOUSE CORONAVIRUS TASK FORCE: This kind of  isolation is one of the unspoken tragedies of the elderly, who are now  being told, don't see your family at Thanksgiving. For many people, this is  their final Thanksgiving, believe it or not. What are we doing here?  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: Straight out, should people listen to Dr. Atlas or not?  INGLESBY: You know, I don't think so. I think there -- there are a number  of officials from the U.S. government who have 30 years of experience  preparing for and responding to infectious disease outbreaks, including Dr.  Fauci, and I think their advice has been very clear. CDC's advice is very  clear. CDC's job is to try to prevent the spread of outbreaks.  I think -- I don't know Dr. Atlas, but his background is quite different,  and I think we should stick with the scientists who have led us through  past outbreaks.  WALLACE: I've got two questions I want to squeeze in here, so I'm going to  need quick answers from you.  First of all, there is some good news, and that, of course, is the fact  that --  INGLESBY: Yes.  WALLACE: -- it looks like we have not one, but two vaccines as part of  Operation Warp Speed. They're on the way. Pfizer on Friday applied for  emergency use authorization.  Assuming that they're approved by the FDA, how confident should Americans  be about taking these vaccines?  INGLESBY: Yeah. I wouldn't call this good news. I would call this great  good news. It's fantastic. It's probably the best news we've had since the  start of the pandemic.  We have two vaccines that are making their way through the approval process  that may be as high as 95 percent effective and seemed to be safe based on  the information we've seen so far. Obviously, they need to go through the  usual FDA review process, and that's going to begin now for one of the  vaccines and will begin shortly for the second.  But if it does get through that process and if they are reviewed by an  external scientific committee which has no stake in the outcome except for  the safety and effectiveness for Americans of these vaccines, then I will  have confidence in those vaccines. Of course, I want to know about others  from within the government, with a think about it, what Dr. Fauci think  about it, what other scientific authorities in FDA and CDC think about it.  But at this point I will have confidence in the vaccine, and if -- if it  makes it through those processes and I think it will help us change the  course of this pandemic in the months ahead.  WALLACE: Finally, and I need a quick answer here, the delayed transition -  -  INGLESBY: Yeah.  WALLACE: -- President-elect Biden said today that people may die because  the Trump administration is not reading them in on vaccine distribution  issues for a seamless turnover on January 20th. But the president's press  secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, said that the -- that information is already  out there.  Take a look.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT-ELECT: We don't have access to all the information  that we need to get from all the various agencies.  KAYLEIGH MCENANY, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: It's the COVID-19  vaccination program, the interim playbook for jurisdiction operations. This  is publicly available if the former vice president would like to read  through it.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: Is McEnany right? Is the public playbook enough?  INGLESBY: No, it's not. I mean, there's so much going on inside the  government to prepare -- to respond to this pandemic and to prepare for it.  I think about it like a hospital taking care of many patients.  When a shift is leaving, the doctors and nurses who've been taken care of  all the sick patients, they spend time with the shift that is coming in.  They want to explain the details, what could go wrong, who's been in  trouble.  That's the same thing that should be happening now. We should be going over  the details, the people who are leaving are going to need to take -- need  to spend time with and explain in detail all the science and the data for  people who are coming in.  WALLACE: Dr. Inglesby, thank you. Thanks again for your time and we wish  you a happy and safe Thanksgiving, sir.  INGLESBY: Thanks so much, Chris, you too.  WALLACE: Up next, we'll bring in our Sunday group to discuss the politics  and policy of COVID-19, and the promise of vaccines that look to be on the  way.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK)  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  FAUCI: If you're fighting a battle and the cavalry is on the way, you  don't stop shooting, you keep going until the cavalry gets here, and then  you might even want to continue fighting.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease official,  urging Americans to continue best practices just a bit longer as we wait  for those COVID vaccines.  And it's time now for our Sunday group -- former Republican Congressman  Jason Chaffetz, former Democratic Congresswoman Jane Harman, director of  the Wilson Center, and Jonathan Swan from "Axios".  Jonathan, is there any push inside the White House to begin a provisional  transition to read members of the Trump -- of the Biden transition team in  on things like vaccine distribution just in case, or is that still regarded  as an act of disloyalty to President Trump and his effort to overturn  election?  JONATHAN SWAN, AXIOS NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER: None whatsoever. It's  still regarded an act of disloyalty to President Trump and no one in his  circle has coercive power to that effect at this point. They are privately  distancing themselves from the Rudy Giuliani, Sidney Powell, Jenna Ellis  legal effort which now asserts that there is an international criminal  communist conspiracy stretching from Venezuela to Cuba, involving hacking  into voting machines and switching millions of votes. That's not a widely  accepted theory inside Trump's inner circle.  Even some of his most hard-core loyalists staying the heck away from that,  but that doesn't mean that they are sitting down with the president saying,  Mr. President, you have to concede and start doing transition. That's not  happening to -- as far as my reporting is concerned.  WALLACE: Congressman Chaffetz, this week the governor of your state, of  Utah, issued a mask mandate for the first time. As we are seeing, and you  just heard Dr. Inglesby stay the spread of the virus is the worst that it's  been by several measures, several multiples, 195 cases on Friday alone. Are  some conservatives beginning to rethink this issue of mandates and closures  and shutdowns?  JASON CHAFFETZ, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, I think doing it state-by-  state does make sense. Utah early on in the process was not suffering a  major outbreak.  But I think the principle of personal decision-making, making sure that the  information is out there and that people take personal responsibility is  still core to what Republicans believe in. And, look, it was Donald Trump  and his administration very early in this process talked about the 15 days  to slow the spread into wash her hands vigorously, don't touch your face,  wear a mask, and to be socially distant.  And I still think that those are viable -- you know, that's the way people  should go, but they also have to have some degree of personal  responsibility because in some of the most stringent places like New York,  they've seen some of the highest death rates. So we learned a lot, but  those are smart things to do. We should listen to the scientists.  WALLACE: But, in -- as I said, the Republican governor of the deeply red  state of Utah issued a mask mandate for the first time. Do you have a  problem with that?  CHAFFETZ: Not -- it's not as deep as some of these other states. There was  a very strong recommendation, but it's not so far as to say what Gavin  Newsom said in California to wear a mask and to put it back on in between  bites of food. That's not what Governor Herbert said.  WALLACE: No, he didn't say that, he just said wear a mask when you can.  Congresswoman Harman, I want to talk to you about these two vaccines that  have now gone through the trial process and one of them at Pfizer is now  seeking emergency use authorization.  Here is the head of Pfizer.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  ALBERT BOURLA, PFIZER CEO: We are announcing that finally we are  submitting our application for emergency use authorization to the U.S. FDA.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: Doesn't President Trump deserve credit, in fact a great deal of  credit, for Operation Warp Speed and this private partner -- private-public  partnership which has resulted in two vaccines in less than ten months with  more on the way?  JANE HARMAN, FORMER CONGRESSWOMAN (D-CA): Yes. I think he does. But let's  understand that the pharma companies started ahead of Warp Speed to start  developing these vaccines and developed them in a brand-new way. So, yes,  he does.  Congress does too. Congress provided $10 billion in the CARES Act in March,  which give a jump-start to Moderna, which had virtually no ability to do  this. Pfizer did. Pfizer has been much more successful, robust company and  now they are both almost at the finish line.  But one more point, Chris. Developing a vaccine is great. Getting them in  people's arms is the new challenge.  And I want President Trump to be first in line getting one of those  vaccines so that he can show millions of Americans who still think we need  to stop the steal that these are safe and efficacious because we won't get  to the end of this unless we have a country where a huge number of people  are vaccinated.  WALLACE: But, Jonathan, instead of celebrating the Pfizer announcement on  Friday, President Trump suggested that the company had actually held up its  announcement of the new vaccine until after the election.  Take a look at the president on Friday.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNTIED STATES: They waited and waited and  waited and they thought they'd come out with it a few days after the  election. And it would have probably had an impact, who knows, maybe it  wouldn't have. I'm sure they would have found the ballots someplace, the  Democrats.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: Does the president really believe that big pharma was out to get  him and purposely in the case of Pfizer delayed this announcement because  he wants to lower drug prices?  SWAN: Well, that would require sort of an MRI of his soul. I mean, I don't  know whether he genuinely believes that. He certainly was saying it  privately to advisors in the lead up to election. He was watching these ads  hitting him from the pharmaceutical industry and he was making comments to  his aides that, oh, we are clearly doing something right, you know, they  are trying to get me.  And, you know, as one of his aides said to me, he sees everything through  the prison of his self. So, it's completely in character for him to see  that announcement as all about him and trying to game the election.  WALLACE: Congressman Chaffetz, last word here. And I need a pretty brief  last word.  Do you think it's credible that Pfizer was playing politics here and  delaying the announcement of this vaccine, which is so important to the  country, so important to Pfizer, just to try to hurt the president's  reelection chances?  CHAFFETZ: I really don't know, Chris, but it did come out just one week  after the election. I wish it had come out naturally when it was supposed  to. And -- but most importantly I hope it helps and saves the lives of  millions of Americans.  WALLACE: Well, I think that's something that all of us can agree on.  Panel, we have to take a break here, but when we come back, how President-  elect Biden is proceeding facing resistance from the Trump White House and  pressure from the left. We'll talk with a key member of the Biden team.  That's next.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK)  WALLACE: Coming up, Donald Trump keeps fighting the election results in  court and delaying the transition.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  BIDEN: Incredibly damaging messages being sent to the rest of the world  about how democracy functions.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: We'll ask a senior advisor to the president-elect, Kate  Bedingfield, how the Biden field to team is handling these challenges.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK)  CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: President-elect Biden is expected to  announce key members of his cabinet this week, even as President Trump  keeps trying to overturn the election.  In a moment, we'll speak with Kate Bedingfield, senior advisor to the Biden  transition.  But let's begin with Jacqui Heinrich, who's tracking the president-elect in  Delaware.  Jacqui.  JACQUI HEINRICH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Chris, President-elect Joe Biden's  legal team says the system is working as recounts affirm Biden's win. Cases  are tossed in courts, including a case in battleground Pennsylvania  yesterday and Michigan legislators are summoned to Washington in an  apparent bid to appoint faithless electors.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  BOB BAUER, BIDEN LEGAL ADVISER: While the president and his allies are  ripping at the fabric of the democracy in any way they can, the fabric is  not tearing. It's holding firm.  HEINRICH (voice over): Despite time lost coordinating with federal agencies  amid a public health and economic crisis, President-elect Joe Biden's team  so far has not pursued legal action.  JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's not going to speed it  up considerably in my view. And, in the meantime, I -- I am hopeful that  I'm going to be able to get cooperation from our Republican colleagues in  the Senate and the House.  HEINRICH: Instead, he's forming his government amid calls for inclusion  from progressives and some criticism over his first hires.  JEN PSAKI, BIDEN TRANSITION ADVISER: I would encourage people to wait until  we've made even one announcement about a cabinet member and certainly more  than just a dozen White House names before they pass judgment.  HEINRICH: Biden's also calling on states and Congress to do what he can't  right now, including passing an emergency aid package to fight the pandemic  and repair the economy.  BIDEN: In my Oval Office, mi casa, you casa. I'm going to need that. I hope  we're going to spend a lot of time together.  (END VIDEOTAPE)  HEINRICH: Biden is expected to announce some cabinet nominees on Tuesday.  He's already picked his choice to head up the Treasury and significantly  that name has not been leaked, Chris.  WALLACE: Jacqui Heinrich reporting from Wilmington.  Jacqui, thank you.  And joining us now, senior advisor to the Biden transition team, Kate  Bedingfield.  Kate, welcome back to FOX NEWS SUNDAY.  KATE BEDINGFIELD, BIDEN-HARRIS TRANSITION SENIOR ADVISER: Thanks for having  me, Chris.  WALLACE: Does the president-elect have any concerns whether or not  President Trump's effort to overturn the election will succeed, and is he  reconsidering at all his decision not to go to court either, one, to  protect his victory in the election and, two, to try to force the  transition to begin?  BEDINGFIELD: No, he does not have any concern. I think what we've seen over  the course of the last few weeks are these lawsuits, these lawsuits from  the Trump campaign and their allies have been laughed out of court after  court all across the country. They are getting absolutely no traction.  We've seen the Republican governor and Republican secretary of state in  Georgia this week reaffirm the -- the recount results there, reaffirm the  outcomes that Joe Biden won the state of Georgia.  Look, Joe Biden won the selection by 80 million votes. He won 306 Electoral  College votes, which is the same -- the same outcome from 2016 that Donald  Trump called a landslide when he won 306 Electoral College votes.  So, no, we have absolutely no concern that this is going to have any  outcome on -- on the election itself.  On your question about the transition and suing the GSA, I would say, look,  you know, litigation is not a panacea. It is not going to -- to suddenly  move things forward. What will move things forward is the GSA administrator  signing the piece of paper, you know, the statute says that it is her  obligation to ascertain the apparent winner of the election.  I don't think there's anybody in the world who would suggest, except maybe  the folks around Donald Trump, that Joe Biden was not the apparent winner  of this election. Again, he won 306 Electoral College votes and 80 million  votes from Americans all across the country. So she should ascertain the  results of the election so that we can move forward with a seamless  transition.  WALLACE: Now, in his defense, President Trump argues that Democrats sought  to delegitimize his election from the very start, in pushing the idea that  there was a Russia collusion, pushing the Mueller investigation, even  impeaching him. The president says that your side has no right to complain  now when he is contesting this election.  BEDINGFIELD: That is, frankly, Chris, I think that is absurd. And that is  an apples and oranges comparison at best. What we're talking about right  now is Donald Trump actively trying to overturn the will of the American  people state-by-state. And what we're seeing across the board is that  courts across the country, governors and secretaries of state across the  country are rejecting that. They're saying the -- the election was fair. It  was legitimate. Joe Biden won by a handy margin. Again, a margin that  Donald Trump himself called a landslide in 2016. And we're continuing to  see Republicans come out and acknowledge this as well. You know, Senator  Toomey made a statement yesterday acknowledging Joe Biden as the president-  elect and encouraging the transition to move forward. We've seen even  Donald Trump's national security advisor Robert O'Brien has said that the  transition should move forward.  So I think all across the country Americans rose -- rose up --  WALLACE: But -- but what about the -- but what about the argument that that  -- but if I may, just what about the argument that Democrats were trying to  overturn the legitimate election of -- of Donald Trump? Maybe not in -- so  much in contesting the election, but the way they acted on a number of  fronts with investigations over the four years of his presidency?  BEDINGFIELD: I don't think that when a president gets elected that he is no  longer held accountable as he moves through his administration. I think  that's an incredibly different thing. I think investigations into whether a  president has behaved appropriately or not -- or not are entirely -- an  entirely different matter than what Donald Trump is trying to do here,  which is to -- is to actively overturn the will of the American people, to  subvert the democratic system, to sow doubt about -- about the foundations  of our democracy. That is a completely different thing. And it's -- look,  it's a PR stunt. It's a sideshow. I think you would only have to look at  Rudy Giuliani's press conference a couple of days ago to appreciate that  this is not a serious, sophisticated effort. And, most importantly, it will  fail. It has failed, it's continuing to fail, because, again, Joe Biden  overwhelmingly won this election, 306 Electoral College votes. The American  people voted for Joe Biden to be sworn in on January 20, 2021, and he will  be.  WALLACE: Right. How many -- we -- we understand that the -- it's been  announced the president-elect is going to name some cabinet appointments on  Tuesday. How many, and which ones?  BEDINGFIELD: Well, I have been in this business long enough to know that I  am not going to get ahead of President-elect Biden and his announcement.  But you are right, we will be making our first cabinet announcements on  Tuesday of this week and, you know, I would say the president-elect is very  excited about this team and looks forward to introducing them to the  country.  WALLACE: Can you even tell us a number, how many?  BEDINGFIELD: I can't. I -- everyone will have to just tune in on Tuesday  and we will -- it will be made known then.  WALLACE: OK.  The president also -- president-elect, and we -- we showed it in -- in  Jacqui's piece, met with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer on Friday. And he  talked afterwards about he wants to see a COVID relief bill passed by the  lame duck Congress and the next couple of weeks. Can't wait until January  20th.  Question, when is he going to meet with Senate Majority Leader Mitch  McConnell?  BEDINGFIELD: Well, he's looking forward to doing that when the time is  right. Obviously, you know, he and Senator McConnell have had productive  working relationship in the past and he looks forward to -- to meeting with  Senator McConnell when that moment -- when that moment arrives.  But you're absolutely right, he believes that we need to get a relief bill  done in the lame duck. People are hurting all over the country. People need  money in their pockets to make rent. They need money in their pockets to  afford groceries. Small businesses need that money. Teachers need that  money. Tough decisions about layoffs of firefighters and essential workers  are being made all over this country because Congress won't move forward on  -- on a package. So that is a priority for him. That is something that he's  going to continue to push in the lame duck.  WALLACE: But -- but, Kate -- but, but, Kate, you -- you can't pass COVID  relief without the Senate majority leader. He is the majority leader in the  Senate, Mitch McConnell. Is the president-elect ready to meet with him now?  In other -- I'm trying to get a sense, is it President-elect Biden whose  holding up the meeting or is it Mitch McConnell?  BEDINGFIELD: We strongly hope that Senator McConnell will come to the  table. I think if you look at where the Democrats have been across the  entire course of this year. You know, Democrats passed a bill back in May  and we've seen -- we've seen obstruction from Republicans. So, obviously,  we are very helpful that Mitch McConnell will come to the table. It is  important. People are expecting it. You know, they voted for -- in this --  in this election, they voted for action, they voted for progress and they  voted for some --  WALLACE: But just to -- just to -- just to press this, would -- would Biden  meet -- would -- would Biden meet with McConnell right now?  BEDINGFIELD: Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. It is important that  Senator McConnell come to the table.  WALLACE: So the holdup here --  BEDINGFIELD: And we're -- and we're very hopeful -- we're very hopeful that  we'll be able to see progress soon on this bill because people all across  the country desperately need it.  WALLACE: The -- the president-elect is already taking heat from the -- the  left wing of the Democratic Party. I want to play some of that, that we saw  this week.  Take a look.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  REP. RASHIDA TLAIB (D-MI): We're going to make sure that the Biden  administration sticks to our timeline, is moving towards our timeline. And  so I ask all of you, do not move from the needle. Do not.  REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): That's what our next move is, is to  make sure that the Biden administration keeps its promise.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: And Senator Bernie Sanders said it would be, quote, enormously  insulting if Biden ignored the progressive community.  So how much pressure does the president-elect feel to repay the left for  its support in this election?  BEDINGFIELD: Joe Biden was elected with an incredibly broad coalition of  voters and a broad coalition of support. That includes support from the  progressive wing of the party. That includes support from the more moderate  wing of the party. It included support from independents and Republicans. I  mean he won 80 million votes all across the country, an historic number of  votes for a president-elect.  So, look, we have every intention, I can tell you definitively, Joe Biden  is going to keep his promises. He is -- he put -- he laid out plans on this  campaign that are bold and that meet the crises that we're facing. We're  facing four incredibly overwhelming and historic crises in this country,  including the public health crisis and the economic crisis that goes with  it, in addition to the climate crisis and the racial injustice crisis that  we're seeing in this country.  WALLACE: Right.  BEDINGFIELD: He campaigned on bold plans to tackle all of these crises that  he has every intention of keeping his promises.  WALLACE: Kate, thank you. Thanks for joining us. I hope you get at least  the day off for Thanksgiving, but I suspect it's a busy time for you.  BEDINGFIELD: It is, but thank you very much for having me. I -- I  appreciate being here, Chris.  WALLACE: Up next, our Sunday panel returns to discuss President Trump's  ongoing effort to challenge the results of the 2020 election.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK)  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Big pharma ran millions of  dollars of negative advertisements against me during the campaign, which I  won, by the way, but, you know, we'll find that out. Almost 74 million  votes. We had big pharma against us. We had the media against us. We had  big tech against us.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: President Trump, once again, claiming victory over Joe Biden and a  wide array of opponents.  And we're back now with the panel.  Jonathan, the -- the president and his legal team had a bad week in trying  to overturn the election, both in court and also in meetings with state  legislators and trying to get them to flip the electors that each state  will appoint.  Where does the president stand now in this effort to try to reverse the  results of the election?  JONATHAN SWAN, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, "AXIOS": Well, it's hard to  actually see. I mean I just got a fundraising e-mail from the Trump  campaign assuring me that there is a path to victory and raising small  dollar donations from a bunch of Republican donors, small donors, many of  them elderly, telling them that there's still a way to win.  I can't see it and -- and, frankly, when I talk to most of the president's  senior advisors, but whether it be the campaign or the West Wing, they  can't see it either. They're not -- they're not saying that publicly, of  course, but that's what they do say privately almost universally. They're  trying several tracks. They're trying litigation. They just got thrown out  of court in Pennsylvania. They're trying sort of coercion with some of  these state legislatures, trying to get them to overturn the electors. And  then they're doing a sort of macro -- I don't even know what you would call  it, but this is what I referred to earlier, this conspiracy theory that is  very hard to follow, but is being pushed by his -- President Trump and his  legal team.  WALLACE: I'm -- I'm going to pick up on -- I'm going to pick up on that in  a second.  SWAN: Yes. OK. Sure.  WALLACE: But -- but you -- from everything you can see, the president is  still full speed ahead?  SWAN: Yes. Yes, I haven't seen any sign that he's pulling back. But, again,  I see no sign that there's any plausible path forward.  WALLACE: Congressman Chaffetz, you are a loyal supporter of -- of the  president, but I -- I want to play, and the -- this is what Jonathan was  referring to, a clip of one of the top members of his legal team this week.  Take a look.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  SIDNEY POWELL, TRUMP ATTORNEY: What we are really dealing with here and  uncovering more by the day is the massive influence of communist money  through Venezuela, Cuba, and likely China in the interference with our  elections here in the United States.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  WALLACE: There is not, Congressman, a shred of evidence that any of that is  true.  Do you have no concerns that this may be damaging the country?  JASON CHAFFETZ, FORMER CONGRESSMAN (R-UT) AND FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I do  have some concerns. I -- it's one thing to have a president -- or to have a  press conference, but they do need to produce evidence. And, quite frankly,  the only ones that it matters are in front of a court. And so they've got  to prevail in a court. Supposedly, they're going to be aggressive there in  -- in the -- in the state of Georgia. I do think there is evidence there. I  -- to suggest that there's no evidence I think it would be wrong.  And let me just add, Chris, (INAUDIBLE) --  WALLACE: But, wait, wait, wait. Wait, you think there -- wait, Congressman,  you think there's evidence of communist money pouring through Venezuela,  Cuba, and China to overthrow this election?  CHAFFETZ: No. No, I don't. no, I don't. even -- even --  WALLACE: To turn -- you know, to -- to falsely elect Joe --  CHAFFETZ: No. No, but what I do -- like, she even said likely China, but --  WALLACE: No, you don't think there's evidence?  CHAFFETZ: Well, I think there's -- you're -- you're trying to lump it into  just one group. I'm just saying there are lots of fronts on which there are  some bits of evidence. But to suggest that there's likely Chinese money  flowing through this, I don't see any evidence of that. Even the attorney  is saying it -- it might happen.  But the point I want to make here, Chris, is, continuity of government is  imperative. I do think the GSA should loosen up that money. Maybe the  president will prevail. Personally, I hope that they do. But if they don't,  continuity of government is far too important, and that should happen.  WALLACE: Congresswoman Harman, I want to pull back on this just a little  bit because what the president is trying to do here, in -- in a specific  case where he met with state legislatures, is trying to tie up states that  Biden won, their ability to name electors for Biden so that the state  legislatures, in places where they're controlled by Republicans, could  actually certify Trump electors.  What do you make of all that?  JANE HARMAN, FORMER CONGRESSWOMAN (D-CA) AND WILSON CENTER DIRECTOR: Well,  it's -- they're up to no good. I observed elections in about ten countries,  including Afghanistan and Chile and Ukraine and -- and everywhere else over  the years, never expecting that my own country would set a bad example. In  fact, Richard Nixon, after he lost in 1960, when there was some credible  evidence of election fraud, unlike now, said that the transition had to  proceed because he didn't want to set a bad example.  This is bogus. I'm a member of the 44 person National Council on Election  Integrity, equal Dems and -- and Republicans, who say to a person that this  has to stop. And what's -- what he's trying now, he's absolutely failed in  terms of litigation strategy, is to blow up the Electoral College. And in  Michigan, again, there's a request for a 14 day delay, which I hope will be  turned down, or I hope the governor, if she has to, she'll replace a couple  of the electors and get this going.  But the point is to delay the vote through December 14th, which is when  it's supposed to happen. And then, in some Hail Mary sense, throw this to  the House, where the election goes by state and there are 26 states that  have a majority Republican delegation. So he would technically win in the  House.  I don't think it will work. I think it's past time to get on with the  transition. And I do think -- I disagree totally with Kelly McEnany (ph) --  WALLACE: Right.  HARMAN: That there's a handbook that Biden should be reading about this.  WALLACE: I've got less than a minute left, Jonathan. As I discussed with  Kate Bedingfield, the president-elect is getting some real heat from the  left now. We helped you win this election, now we want payback.  How much clout does the left have with the -- President-elect Biden and his  transition, both in terms of policy and personnel?  SWAN: I think very little. They've, firstly, they tried to defeat him in  the primaries and they didn't. And now they're in a position where,  frankly, you're looking at, unless they have a disaster in the Georgia  runoffs, a Republican-controlled Senate. So, you know, they can pass the  green new deal through the House or push for Elizabeth Warren at Treasury,  but good luck. Good luck getting any of that through Mitch McConnell's  Senate.  WALLACE: Thank you, panel. See you next Sunday and happy Thanksgiving to  all of you.  Up next our "Power Player of the Week," the archbishop of Washington on  leading Catholics in the nation's capital and about to make history once  again.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK)  WALLACE: This Saturday, Pope Francis will elevate 13 leaders of the  Catholic Church to the rank of cardinal. Among them, Washington Archbishop  Wilton Gregory, who will become the first black American to hold that  position. And he's our "Power Player of the Week."  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  WILTON GREGORY, CARDINAL-DESIGNATE: The past is real. It's painful. But the  future is also possible and hopefully very positive.  I resolve to serve faithfully the spiritual needs of this local church.  WALLACE (voice over): Wilton Gregory has been the archbishop of Washington  for 18 months, and it's been a painful time for Catholics here. In 2019,  longtime Cardinal Theodore McCarrick was defrocked after being found guilty  of sexual abuse.  WALLACE (on camera): How do you help parishioners and priests keep their  trust in the church?  GREGORY: I have to be a man who's committed to telling people the truth, as  -- as best as I know.  WALLACE: What do you say about the betrayal by Cardinal McCarrick?  GREGORY: I think it's horrific. It was just a -- an egregious betrayal of  trust that has deeply wounded this local church.  Do this in memory of me.  WALLACE (voice over): As soon as he took over, Gregory started talking to  parishioners and holding listening sessions with priests to discuss the  church scandals that have troubled all of them.  WALLACE (on camera): Have they tested your faith in the church as an  institution?  GREGORY: Chris, they haven't tested my faith, they've tested my patience.  WALLACE (voice over): As head of the archdiocese in the nation's capital,  Gregory has to deal with subjects beyond religion. He supports a path to  citizenship as part of comprehensive immigration reform at a time when  people crossing the border illegally is still highly charged.  GREGORY: Anyone who denigrates the people who seek a better future, a more  positive way of living for their family, to denigrate them is wrong.  WALLACE: Gregory was in sixth grade when he transferred from public to  parochial school. In short order, he decided to convert to Catholicism and  become a priest.  GREGORY: I thought about becoming a priest before I thought about becoming  a Catholic.  WALLACE (on camera): To be a priest, it would help -- be helpful to be a  Catholic.  GREGORY: You said exactly what my own pastor said, that if you're  interested in being a priest, we've got to take this step-by-step. You  can't steal first base.  WALLACE (voice over): This week, Gregory will take an historic step,  becoming the first African-American cardinal in the U.S., the rank just  below the papacy in the Catholic Church.  When we spoke last year, Gregory said he was in no hurry for Pope Francis  to change the color of his vestments.  GREGORY: I think he would be very disappointed if he sent me here and I got  a bad case of scarlet fever. My first concern before I think about a color  that I might wear is to care for the people that are here right in front of  me.  (END VIDEOTAPE)  WALLACE: Due to the pandemic, Gregory arrived in Rome early so he could  quarantine for ten days before the ceremony next weekend.  And that's it for today. Have a great week and a happy and safe  Thanksgiving and we'll see you next FOX NEWS SUNDAY.  (COMMERCIAL BREAK)  Content and Programming Copyright 2020 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL  RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2020 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials  herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be  reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast  without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may  not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of  the content. Will the Biden campaign take legal action to force transition process?