Good morning and welcome to Fox News. Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...  Hurricane Sally expected to produce historic life-threatening flooding  Hurricane Sally has strengthened into a Category 2 hurricane with sustained winds of 100 mph as it moves north-northeastward and is expected to reach the northern Gulf coast later on Wednesday morning, the National Hurricane Center in Miami reported at 1 a.m. ET Wednesday.  A sustained wind of 76 mph, with a gust to 96 mph, was recently reported in Sally's northern eyewall by a NOAA buoy, which was located about 50 miles southeast of Mobile, Ala, an updated statement by the hurricane center reported.  At the time of the statement, the hurricane was located approximately 65 miles south-southeast from Mobile and approximately 60 miles southwest of Pensacola, Fla.    In addition, significant flash and urban flooding – including widespread minor- to moderate-river flooding – is likely across inland parts of Mississippi along with Alabama, Georgia and western Carolina. CLICK HERE FOR MORE ON OUR TOP STORY.    In other developments:  - FEMA Administrator maps Hurricane Sally threat: ‘Don't take the storm for granted'  - Hurricane Sally floods Gulf Coast as officials urge residents in low-lying areas to 'run from the water'  - Hurricane Sally's eye, choppy seas revealed as storm lurks off Gulf Coast  - 2020 Atlantic hurricane season is running out of names, so what happens next?    Social media post on two shot deputies lands Los Angeles-area city manager on paid administrative leave  The city manager of Lynwood, a Los Angeles-area suburb, was put on paid administrative leave Tuesday after his social media post on the ambush shooting of two sheriffs' deputies over the weekend was heavily criticized.  Jose Ometeotl was put on leave pending an internal investigation, Lynwood City Councilman Salvador Alatorre told Fox News, following the council's closed session meeting Tuesday night. Alatorre put forth the motion to discipline or dismiss Ometeotl following his personal Instagram post that read, "chickens come home to roost" after two deputies were shot multiple times while sitting in their patrol vehicle Saturday in the nearby city of Compton.    Alatorre told Fox News in a text message the move against Ometeotl was "Protocal" [sic] and that "he is gone, will not represent Lynwood anymore."    "He represents the city of Lynwood 24/7," Alatorre said Monday. "He cannot make statements while he's employed by our city, especially when he jeopardizes public safety." CLICK HERE FOR MORE.    In other developments:  - Compton 'ambush' leaves 2 LA County sheriff's deputies 'fighting for their lives'  - Lynwood councilman to motion of discipline of city manager over social media post on LA County deputies shooting  - Wounded hero LA County sheriff's deputy ID'd, was librarian before joining force; reward increased to $200G  - Compton mayor changes tone in wake of ambush shooting of sheriff's deputies    Alan Dershowitz files $300 million defamation suit against CNN  Famed attorney and Harvard Law School professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz filed a defamation suit against CNN on Tuesday seeking $300 million for what he called a "willful, deliberate, malicious effort to destroy my credibility."  Dershowitz told Fox News CNN selectively edited a clip of his remarks from the Senate floor during President Trump's impeachment trial where he broke down the illegalities surrounding a "quid pro quo" as a member of the president's defense team.    "What CNN did here, and it pains me to say this because, you know, I have friends over there. What they did is they just totally doctored the tape," Dershowitz told Sean Hannity on Tuesday.    "If they had just shown the part where I said if he does anything illegal he can be impeached -- Dershowitz trailed off, "but they doctored the tape to take that out."  Dershowitz said he plans to donate any awarding to "charities and to good causes," emphasizing that he's "not doing this for myself. I’m doing this to hold them accountable.” CLICK HERE FOR MORE.    In other developments:  - Alan Dershowitz: Impeachment has deeply divided our nation – Why weren't legal experts cross-examined?  - Alan Dershowitz: Mueller wrongly introduces dangerous concept of ‘exoneration’ in review of Trump actions  - Alan Dershowitz: Mueller shouldn’t tell Congress anything about Trump not already in his report    CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP    TODAY'S MUST-READS:  - Chinese virologist: China's government 'intentionally' released COVID-19  - Kim Kardashian announces she's 'freezing' her Instagram, Facebook  - Trump pressed on why he took 'foot off the gas' on COVID response  - Justice Dept. to announce charges for Chinese government-linked 'computer intrusion campaign'  - Biden panned for playing 'Despacito' at Hispanic Heritage Month event  - Georgia man fleeing deputies leaves behind winning lottery ticket  - Refugees from socialist countries warn Americans: Don't let it happen here    THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS:  - Fed expected to raise economic forecasts, extend vow to keep rates low  - Snowflake prices IPO at $120 a share  - Oracle, TikTok deal decision imminent    #TheFlashback: CLICK HERE to find out what happened on "This Day in History."  SOME PARTING WORDS  Sean Hannity, the host of "Hannity," talked on his show about Joe Biden’s climate change speech, confusion over who’s topping the Democratic ticket and the former vice president's choice of travel after complaining about fossil fuels.  Not signed up yet for Fox News First? Click here to find out what you're missing.    Fox News’ Go Watch page is now available, providing visitors with Pay TV provider options in their area carrying Fox News Channel & Fox Business Network.    Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Jack Durschlag. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! We’ll see you in your inbox first thing Thursday. Hurricane Sally strengthens to Category 2 storm, expect life-threatening flooding: officials