Black Lives Matter PAC is pushing to raise $500,000 to support Democratic Senate candidates Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock in the closely watched Georgia runoffs that will determine the balance of power in the upper chamber of Congress come January.  GEORGIA DEMOCRATS TO RESUME DOOR-TO-DOOR CANVASSING AHEAD OF SENATE RUNOFF ELECTIONS  Activists with the social justice movement are hoping to push forth legislation in the first 100 days of the Biden administration that will, among other things, include the BREATHE Act, which proposes shutting down and defunding multiple federal agencies and permanently closing prisons and immigration detention centers, among other agenda items.  Georgia's runoff elections will determine whether Republicans or Democrats control the Senate in the next Congress, a crucial balance of power that could ultimately determine the future of the bill. Republicans currently hold 50 seats versus Democrats' 48.  If both Democratic candidates prevail in Georgia, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will become the tie-breaking vote in any Senate deadlock.  SEN. DAVID PERDUE 'INVITES' AOC TO STATE TO CAMPAIGN FOR HIS OPPONENT  "We know how important this election is going to be in determining what decisions will be made in the Senate for the next few years -- decisions that will impact us directly, like access to quality and affordable health care, reforming the criminal justice system, all the way to major electoral reform like passing the BREATHE Act," the BLM PAC said in an email to voters.  The runoffs are expected to be one of the most expensive in Senate history. More than $46 million has been spent on the airwaves in both races since Election Day, Nov. 3, according to the ad-tracking firm Advertising Analytics.  Another $214 million worth of advertisements is expected to roll out in the coming weeks, even as more dollars are continuously poured in to effort wins before the elections.  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP  Georgia state law requires political candidates to earn at least 50% of the vote to win. Because neither Ossoff and Warnock nor Georgia Republican Sens. David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler reached that mark earlier this month, Georgia will hold runoff elections on Jan. 5. BLM raising $500K to back Ossoff, Warnock in Georgia Senate race - Fox News