Juan Williams, FNC Political Analyst & Co-Host of the Five spoke with Fox News Radio's Guy Benson about his latest oped titled "Juan Williams: Too many men of color got conned by Trump." Benson and Williams debated the article, with Guy challenging the premise of the headline saying,  "I read through the column. And part of your argument seems to be that people of color, men of color in particular, shouldn't be voting for Donald Trump. They got tricked or bamboozled somehow. And I wonder to me and maybe to others, I would imagine as well that that feels kind of disrespectful to the people who made voting choices."  Williams fired back saying,  "Let me lay out the argument before you defeat it. You know, what I said in the piece was that President Trump performed better than any Republican presidential candidate among nonwhite voters going back to 1960. And if you look at the numbers, especially among Latinos, he did very well. You look at the Miami-Dade area in particular with that large Cuban population. But then. Right. So he even but it's not only that he did well among the Cubans with the socialist spin. You know, as I said in the column, it's hard to see Joe Biden as Fidel Castro. But OK, I get the scare tactic of hey creeping socialism among these Democrats. And Biden might be the puppet, OK, but he then also does well among the Puerto Ricans going up that I4 corridor. The Venezuelans and Nicaraguans say, wow. And then you cut across the country to Texas, even in some districts that are right on the border in Mexico. Yeah, you go across to Arizona, up to Nevada. The numbers not quite as high as Florida, but pretty consistent in terms of over performing what he did in 2016. And amazing to me because remember, he has separated parents from their children at that border. And these that we're talking about, Latino kids and parents. We're talking about very harsh immigration policies almost solely directed at the southern border with Latin America. And we're talking about denying the dreamers, young people who most Americans, including most Republicans, think should have a pathway anyway. Clearly, Trump's immigration policies have been very harsh, but somehow he was able then to attract this record a number of Latino votes."  Listen To The Full Debate Below: Guy Benson & Juan Williams Debate Minority Support For President Trump