Good morning and welcome to Fox News First. Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...  Trump authorizes Russian collusion declassification along with Clinton email probe documents  President Trump on Tuesday announced he has “fully authorized the total Declassification of any & all documents" related to the Russia investigation and the FBI’s investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server.  "All Russia Hoax Scandal information was Declassified by me long ago," Trump tweeted. "Unfortunately for our Country, people have acted very slowly, especially since it is perhaps the biggest political crime in the history of our Country," before he additionally tweeted “Act!!!”    Last year, the president gave Attorney General Bill Barr authority to declassify any documents related to surveillance of the Trump campaign in 2016. Trump, at the time, also ordered members of the intelligence community to cooperate with Barr’s probe.  Allies of the president, including Republicans on Capitol Hill leading their own investigations into the origins of the Trump-Russia probe, have criticized officials like FBI Director Christopher Wray and CIA Director Gina Haspel, claiming that the directors have been blocking the release of documents.  "Today, at the direction of President Trump, I declassified additional documents relevant to ongoing Congressional oversight and investigative activities," Ratcliffe said in a statement to Fox News Tuesday. CLICK HERE FOR MORE ON OUR TOP STORY.    In other developments:  - Gregg Jarrett: Declassification of Russia probe documents could prove Hillary Clinton committed felony  - DNI declassifies Brennan notes, CIA memo on Hillary Clinton 'stirring up' scandal between Trump, Russia  - Fred Fleitz: Report claims Hillary OK’d effort to defeat Trump in 2016 with false Russia collusion charge  - 'Spygate' author Bongino cheers Trump declassification move while awaiting surgery  - Trump allies, Republicans say American people 'deserve the truth,' praise declassification of Russia probe docs  - Trump's declassifying order won't erase his wrongdoing, Swalwell says    Pelosi questions COVID-19 treatments’ effect on Trump’s mental fitness after economic stimulus talks fall apart  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi wondered out loud whether President Trump’s use of a steroid during his COVID-19 treatment regimen may have been "impacting his thinking” after the president called for an abrupt halt of negotiations over the next coronavirus stimulus bill, according to reports.  Pelosi questioned whether dexamethasone had affected the president’s thought process as he recovers from his illness, during a Democratic call Tuesday, according to CNN’s Manu Raju, who cited two people on the line.  The drug’s potential side effects can include vertigo, psychic disorders and mood swings, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.    But Dr. Brian Garibaldi, a specialist in pulmonary critical care, said the president received his first dose of the drug Saturday did not subsequently appear to show any side effects.  On Twitter, Trump countered that the Democrats were after more money than is justified for the next round of COVID-19 relief, tweeting “Nancy Pelosi is asking for $2.4 trillion ... to bail out poorly run, high crime, Democrat states, money that is in no way related to COVID-19. We made a very generous offer of $1.6 trillion ... and, as usual, she is not negotiating in good faith.” CLICK HERE FOR MORE.    In other developments:  - Trump rejects Dems' coronavirus relief proposal, calls off negotiations 'until after the election'  - Pelosi cites Fed's Powell in latest push for coronavirus relief deal  - House Democrats’ stimulus bill includes stimulus checks for illegal immigrants, protections from deportations    Eddie Van Halen, legendary rock guitarist, dead at 65 from throat cancer  Eddie Van Halen, one of rock 'n' roll's singular and most gifted guitarists, died Tuesday morning, his son Wolfgang, announced on Twitter.  "I can't believe I'm having to write this, but my father, Edward Lodewijk Van Halen, has lost his long and arduous battle with cancer this morning," he tweeted.  Van Halen was a guitar virtuoso, whose blinding speed, control and innovation propelled his band, Van Halen, into one of hard rock’s biggest groups, fueled the unmistakable fiery solo in Michael Jackson’s hit “Beat It” and elevated him to the status of rock god. CLICK HERE FOR MORE.    In other developments:  - Eddie Van Halen's death, celebs react: 'My heart is broken'  - Eddie Van Halen's life in pictures  - Michael Levin: Eddie Van Halen played soundtrack for my generation — his death shows even rock gods are mortal  - Eddie Van Halen's ex-wife Valerie Bertinelli pays tribute to late star: 'See you in our next life my love'    CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP    TODAY'S MUST-READS:  - Biden raises eyebrows after telling 'these beautiful young ladies' he wants to 'see them dancing when they're four years older'  - McCloskeys indicted on gun charges stemming from standoff at St Louis mansion  - Experimental Chinese coronavirus vaccine reportedly safe in early-stage trials: researchers  - Mark Cuban, Sen. Ted Cruz engage in Twitter spat over drop in NBA ratings  - Netflix indicted by Texas grand jury for ‘Cuties’ film  - Ben Shapiro: If Biden, a 'comatose 78-year-old career politician' wins election by double digits, 'that's on Trump'  - LeBron James, Lakers move within one game of NBA title    THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS:  - NY loses more residents than any state during coronavirus pandemic  - Bill Murray tells FBN he can moderate next presidential debate after 'a couple cups of coffee'  - Elon Musk is now Tesla’s sole voice after key department gets cut    #TheFlashback: CLICK HERE to find out what happened on "This Day in History."    SOME PARTING WORDS  Tucker Carlson continued his attacks on the mainstream media during Tuesday's “Tucker Carlson Tonight” concerning media attacks on President Trump’s COVID-19 message.  “It’s hard to think of a more positive message than Trump’s message. Yes, the coronavirus is deadly – it’s killed hundreds of thousands of people in this country. Trump survived, so can we,” Carlson said. “Don’t let it dominate your own life, Trump said. That’s advice we’d give our own children.”    Not signed up yet for Fox News First? Click here to find out what you're missing.  Fox News’ Go Watch page is now available, providing visitors with Pay TV provider options in their area carrying Fox News Channel & Fox Business Network.  Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Jack Durschlag. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! We’ll see you in your inbox first thing Thursday. Trump wants Russian collusion, Clinton email probe documents declassified