Michael Steele tried to find his own way to support Donald Trump in 2016.  As the former chair of the Republican National Committee, Steele understood that breaking with his party against its presidential nominee would make waves, to say the least. But it was the "Access Hollywood" tape that pushed him to make the decision.  Steele described the revelation of the 2005 tape featuring Trump making lewd remarks about women as the last straw.  "It just fundamentally went to the core of the individual. That mattered to me, who sits behind the Resolute Desk," he said. "Not just the policies and the tax cuts and the Supreme Court choices, but it matters who makes those decisions, because we've always linked the character of our president to the character of the nation because he — and someday she — is an extension of us to the world."  Steele, who's now a senior adviser for The Lincoln Project, a group of current and former conservatives aligned against Trump's re-election, endorsed Democratic nominee Joe Biden this fall.  "The thinking with Trumpism is if I tell you that Black unemployment under my leadership is the lowest that it's ever been, then you'll ignore it when I tell you your great-grandfather came from a shithole country," he said, referring to Trump's 2018 comments about immigrants coming to the U.S. from African and Caribbean countries. "If I tell you I've created opportunity zones for your neighborhood, then you'll ignore 'there are fine people on both sides.' If I tell you, 'We've got this great criminal justice bill that reforms the relationship between Black communities and police,' you'll ignore comments that a city like Baltimore, where Black people live, is a place that nobody would ever want to live."  Steele's rejection of Trump may square with that of many of the president's critics, who point to his opposition to the Black Lives Matter movement, his tough immigration policies, his deployment of birtherism as a tool against people of color and several other actions as reasons Black voters — Republican or not — shouldn't support him.  But as political strategist Cornell Belcher told "Into America," there will always be a slice of Black people who identify as politically conservative or Republican.  "We say that Blacks aren't monolithic, but then we want 100 percent of Blacks to vote for — you know, that's just not how any of this works," said Belcher, president of Brilliant Corners Research and Strategies. "And it's not how history's worked. Look, we've had 12, 13 percent of African Americans voting Republican for a long time. I mean, go back to George Bush, go back before then, right? You're going to get a certain percentage of Black people who are going to be Republican."  There has been a lot of focus in the remaining weeks before the election on Trump's gains among Black male voters.  Trump's campaign has been working with the rapper Ice Cube, who has promoted his own Contract With Black America as a platform for the presidential campaigns to adopt. The entertainer's plan includes federal financial oversight, criminal justice reform, the dismantling of Confederate monuments and several other actions. He has gotten backlash for his willingness to work with Trump on a plan to address historic inequalities given Trump's record on addressing racism, including cutting diversity training in the federal government. Being a Black Republican in the Trump era