Senate sidetracked by Covid-19 cases  Editor’s Note: Weekly Shift is a weekly version of POLITICO Pro’s daily Employment & Immigration policy newsletter, Morning Shift. POLITICO Pro is a policy intelligence platform that combines the news you need with tools you can use to take action on the day’s biggest stories. Act on the news with POLITICO Pro.  Quick Fix  SENATE OUT UNTIL OCT. 19: The full Senate will return two weeks later than scheduled after Sens. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) and Mike Lee (R-Utah) tested positive for the coronavirus, our Congress team reports. The announcement came as President Donald Trump, who tested positive for Covid-19 last Friday, was spending the weekend at Walter Reed Medical Center just north of Washington.  But Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the change of plans won’t stop the Senate from moving forward with Amy Coney Barrett's Supreme Court nomination. The Senate Judiciary Committee is still set to begin confirmation hearings on Oct. 12.  The delay will interrupt the Senate’s other business. Last week, the Senate Homeland Security Committee advanced Chad Wolf’s nomination to lead the Department of Homeland Security permanently, meaning he now awaits a full Senate vote. And since McConnell had filed cloture on a handful of judicial nominees before the Senate pushed back its schedule, it’s even more unclear when Wolf will be up next.  And the outbreak “has added another layer of chaos to already tumultuous negotiations over renewing aid for airline workers,” our Stephanie Beasley reports, throwing into doubt whether any relief could be passed soon. On Friday, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi promised that airline aid will be enacted one way or another, whether as part of a larger package or as a standalone bill.  House members are on call to head back to D.C. as soon as a deal is reached, but even if an aid bill passes the House, the Senate's planned recess raises questions about its fate. A spokesperson for McConnell declined to comment on whether Senate members would consider voting on airline aid prior to Oct. 19.  Complicating matters, three more Republican senators have said they are quarantining, narrowing the GOP’s 53-member majority. And don’t forget, Senate rules stipulate that Senators need to be in Washington in order to cast their votes.  GOOD MORNING. It’s Monday, Oct. 5, and this is Morning Shift, your tipsheet on employment and immigration news. If you’re a health care worker, we want to know what you’re hearing and seeing on the front lines of the pandemic. Share your perspective here. And send tips, exclusives and suggestions to [email protected] and [email protected]. Follow us on Twitter at @Eleanor_Mueller and @RebeccaARainey.  Driving the Day  CDC OFFICIALS FOUGHT TRUMP BORDER POLICY: Senior officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention objected to a March order the CDC issued that permitted border agents “to immediately return to Mexico any migrants they encountered crossing the border, citing the threat of the coronavirus,” Michelle Hackman, Andrew Restuccia and Stephanie Armour report for The Wall Street Journal.  “White House officials said at the time the order was driven by the advice of public-health experts and was solely a pandemic-related safety precaution intended to prevent Covid-19 from spreading through cramped and unsanitary Border Patrol stations, where migrants arrested at the border would be crowded together.”  But Hackman, Restuccia and Armour found “the policy was driven by immigration officials in the administration over the objections of senior officials at the CDC, the agency with the authority to issue the order, who warned the rationale behind enacting the pandemic policy was an inappropriate use of its public-health powers.”  “The policy achieves a longstanding goal that Trump administration officials have publicly discussed to discourage or prevent migrants at the southern border from making claims for asylum, which they believe are often meritless,” they write.  Business Relief  REGAL MAY SHUTTER ALL LOCATIONS: “The second-largest cinema chain in America is likely to close indefinitely all its U.S. locations, after reopening in August,” R.T. Watson reports for The Wall Street Journal. Regal Cinemas’ “potential decision to suspend operations at its more than 500 locations follows a cascade of postponements for big-budget Hollywood films, most recently the coming James Bond title ‘No Time to Die.’” A final decision isn’t expected until this week.  An employee cleans the seats in preparation for reopening at a Regal move theater in Irvine, Calif., Tuesday, Sept. 8, 2020. | AP Photo/Jae C. Hong  MORE TROUBLE FOR THEATERS? “The string of delays casts a shadow over the remainder of 2020’s movie calendar and potentially over the entire theatrical industry,” Watson writes. “Last week, a cinema owners’ trade group joined leading filmmakers in sending a letter to lawmakers in the hopes of drumming up financial relief for the ailing sector.”  “If the status quo continues, 69% of small and midsize movie theater companies will be forced to file for bankruptcy or to close permanently,” the National Association of Theatre Owners said in a written statement.  MORE ON THAT AIRLINE AID: Pelosi on Friday asked airline executives directly to hold off on massive job cuts, promising that Congress would deliver “imminent” relief, our Sarah Ferris, Tanya Snyder and Sam Mintz report.  BACKGROUND: “The U.S. airline industry is at a crisis point, with thousands of furloughs and layoffs going into effect Thursday after Congress failed to renew a pandemic aid program for aviation workers.” Airlines had agreed to reverse those job cuts if Pelosi and Secretary Steven Mnuchin could reach a deal in the next few days, but as of Sunday they remain far apart on key issues.  “The airline aid, which would cost roughly $28 billion, has broad bipartisan support, but has been unable to win approval from Congress amid more contentious disputes over coronavirus relief,” Sarah, Sam and Tanya write.  ALSO: “Mnuchin: Administration will simplify small business loan forgiveness,” from our Zachary Warmbrodt  Unions  FLRA LIMITS FEDERAL BARGAINING RIGHTS: The Federal Labor Relations Authority issued a trio of decisions last week that make it harder for federal employee unions to negotiate on issues not brought up during formal contract negotiations, Erich Wagner reports for Government Executive.  The first decision raised the standard for whether an agency policy change “triggers a duty to bargain” over its implementation. The second found that federal labor law “neither requires nor prohibits midterm bargaining” and “makes zipper clauses, which limit negotiations during the term of a union contract, mandatory subjects of bargaining,” according to Wagner.  The last decision, he writes, “states that when an expiring union contract is renewed indefinitely while parties negotiate on a new contract, that is effectively a new agreement that is subject to agency head review and implementation of new governmentwide rules and regulations.”  MORE: “Judge declines to stop rule requiring Michigan state employees to OK union dues annually,” from The Detroit News  Economy  ICYMI — SEPTEMBER JOBS REPORT: The unemployment rate dropped last month by half a percentage point to 7.9 percent.  Some 661,000 jobs were added last month. That figure would normally would be great, but it was lower than expectations. The economy is still playing catch-up; it’s 10 million jobs short of restoring the 22 million jobs lost to the Covid-19 pandemic. More from our Ben White.  And state and local governments shed 184,000 jobs in September, our Kellie Mejdrich reports, “ending a brief recovery during the summer” and suggesting “that their economic pain is deepening as Congress fails to reach a deal on an economic-relief package.”  REPEATING HISTORY? “During the last recession, governments — mostly state and local — shed about 750,000 jobs over five years. This time around, approximately 1.5 million jobs had been lost since the pandemic hit, as of June,” Kellie writes.  CUTS AHEAD: Democrats, governors and labor groups have been calling for more aid for state budgets decimated by steep revenue drop-offs because of the pandemic. “Otherwise, they warn, more cuts are coming to essential services like education, health care and public safety that local economies need now more than ever,” Kellie adds.  Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), a member of the House Republican leadership and a senior appropriator, told POLITICO that if lawmakers fail to reach agreement soon, the economy could “lose the momentum that we created over the summer."  What We're Reading  — “At least a quarter of Disney layoffs coming from Florida,” from The Associated Press  — “Fired Warner Bros. marketing executive sues studio over discrimination, ‘boys club’ culture,” from The Los Angeles Times  — “Many in migrant caravan bused back to Honduran border,” from The Associated Press  — “Workers Face Permanent Job Losses as the Virus Persists,” from The New York Times  — “Lengthy era of rock-bottom interest rates leaving its mark on U.S. economy,” from The Washington Post  — “Pope: Market capitalism has failed in pandemic, needs reform,” from The Associated Press  — “Geneva adopts what's believed to be the highest minimum wage in the world, at $25 an hour,” from CNN  THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT!  Follow us on Twitter Rebecca Rainey @rebeccaarainey Senate sidetracked by Covid-19 cases