New fines for mask violators on public transit — 9/11 commemorations altered by pandemic — Business leaders press de Blasio on quality of life Presented by Uber  Subway riders must mask up or face a $50 fine starting Monday, Gov. Andrew Cuomo and the MTA said . The bid to increase enforcement comes as more and more of the city opens up, but New Yorkers have remained markedly leery of returning to the subway, with post-Labor Day ridership still down more than 70 percent compared to last year.  Restoring confidence in mass transit during a pandemic has proven to be a tricky proposition, as more straphangers turn to cars and the cash-strapped transit authority contemplates massive cuts that could alienate even more riders. There are overnight closures to clean and disinfect cars, but experts point out that contaminated surfaces are not the main risk for catching the coronavirus — instead, it’s lots of people packed into enclosed spaces. So there’s a bit of a paradox here: the emptier the subways are, the safer they are, the more people feel safe enough to take them, the riskier they may become. But most experts agree that compliance with mask requirements is key to keeping riders safe, while the MTA understands that perception is part of its problem.  Masks have been required on subways and buses since April, and the MTA says 90 percent of riders are already following the rules — though the transit workers union and journalists have reported much lower compliance on certain routes. “This is targeting a small population of folks who are refusing to wear a mask,” New York City Transit President Sarah Feinberg said. “Even if it’s just one or two people in the system, they do not have the right to endanger anyone else. And frankly, they don’t have the right to scare anyone away from the system.”  The new penalties, which will also apply on LIRR and MetroNorth, follow an order from Cuomo to boost mask-wearing compliance. Still, it’s not yet clear just how rigorous the latest enforcement blitz will be. The MTA says it will not direct transit workers to issue fines, and will instead rely on MTA police and the NYPD, which stopped giving summonses months ago for failures to wear a mask, and has itself been the subject of frequent complaints about police officers not covering their faces.  IT’S FRIDAY and the 19th anniversary of 9/11. The pandemic has refreshed memories of New Yorkers coming together in the kind of grief we had hoped we’d never experience twice in two decades. Take a few moments to reflect and be kind to your neighbors — and the people who aren't. Thank your first responders, especially those who may still be paying the price for years to come, and remember the strength of a community that looks out for one another.  Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected], or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? No public schedule by press time.  WHERE’S BILL? Attending the 9/11 commemoration ceremony.  ABOVE THE FOLD: “IN A YEAR when the coronavirus pandemic has reshaped countless American rituals, even the commemoration of 9/11 could not escape unchanged. The 19th anniversary of the terror attacks will be marked by dueling ceremonies at the Sept. 11 memorial plaza and a corner near the World Trade Center, reflecting a divide over the memorial’s decision to suspend a cherished tradition of relatives reading victims’ names in person. Vice President Mike Pence is expected at both those remembrances in New York, and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden at the observance on the memorial plaza....In New York, the double beams of light that evoke the fallen twin towers were nearly canceled in the name of virus safety, until an uproar restored the tribute. The Fire Department has cited the virus in urging members to stay away from any observances of the 2001 attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people, among them almost 350 firefighters. Some victims’ relatives say they understand the ground zero observance had to change in a year when so much else has. Others fear the pandemic is making plain what they have feared was happening unspoken: that the commitment to ‘Never Forget’ is fading.” The Associated Press’ Jennifer Peltz  — 9/11 responder groups are pitching in to help essential workers with protective equipment and food during the pandemic.  — “Coronavirus attacked more stealthily, spreading almost unnoticed until suddenly, it seemed to have the entire city in its grip. It eclipsed the 9/11 death toll in early April. Now, the comparison is not even close. As of September 9, coronavirus has killed almost nine times as many people in New York City (23,741) as the World Trade Center attacks (2,753). And while the terror attacks crippled the city’s economy, the economic fallout pales in comparison to 2020.” NY1’s Bobby Cuza  — “[T]he attack on the World Trade Center created a definitive physical scar — a hole in the ground, a space in the skyline — from which the city could rebound and rally around. The impact of the virus has been more pervasive and systemic, Mr. Vaz said, making the city’s path to recovery less clear.” New York Times’ Michael Gold  — “The Children of 9/11 Are About to Vote,” by Garrett M. Graff for POLITICO Magazine  — Via THE CITY: “How Many 9/11 Survivors Have Died of COVID-19? At Least 42 — and Likely Many More”  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  “MORE THAN 150 powerful business leaders in New York City joined together on Thursday to implore Mayor Bill de Blasio to address public safety and other quality-of-life issues that they said were jeopardizing the city’s economic recovery. Chief executives of companies like Goldman Sachs, Vornado Realty Trust and JetBlue sent a letter to the mayor portraying a bleak assessment of life in New York City during the pandemic, and suggesting a vote of no confidence in the mayor’s ability to correct it. The letter asserted that there was ‘widespread anxiety over public safety, cleanliness and other quality of life issues that are contributing to deteriorating conditions in commercial districts and neighborhoods across the five boroughs.’ And if the mayor did not address those issues, the business leaders warned that people who have left the city would be slow to return because of legitimate concerns over ‘security and the livability of our communities.’” New York Times’ Emma G. Fitzsimmons and Dana Rubinstein  THE LEGAL AID Society is preparing to sue the de Blasio administration over its plan to move homeless New Yorkers with disabilities out of an accessible shelter in Midtown so it can make room for the homeless men the mayor kicked out of the Lucerne Hotel on the Upper West Side, the group said Thursday. The Harmonia shelter on 31st Street is a family facility where 80 percent of the people it serves have disabilities. In order to accommodate those moved out of the Lucerne, residents at the Harmonia will be scattered to other shelters around the city, the legal advocacy group said. POLITICO’s Janaki Chadha  — “‘My husband and I are in wheelchairs, okay? And I’m on oxygen,’ said Glenda Harris, 56, who has lived at the Harmonia since February 2018. ‘Last minute, they tell us we have to leave,’ Harris exasperatedly told the Daily News . Harris and her husband, Frank Reichard, were told Wednesday that they’d be moved by the end of the week to a shelter in Canarsie, Brooklyn... Harris suffers from Antiphospholipid syndrome, an autoimmune disorder that can result in blood clotting. She says the illness amounts to a death sentence if she catches Covid-19.” New York Daily News’ Noah Goldberg and Molly Crane-Newman  MAYOR BILL DE BLASIO split with Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s plan to allow indoor dining in New York City, saying he wanted a later opening date and a firm requirement to shut restaurants back down if infection rates rise. De Blasio said Wednesday that a deal was still in the works between the city and the state to green light indoor dining. About an hour later, he said Cuomo’s office informed City Hall that they planned to go ahead with an announcement without him. It’s the latest disagreement between the two rival pols on how to manage the coronavirus pandemic… Cuomo cleared indoor restaurants to reopen on Sept. 30 with 25 percent of their usual tables... He’s pushing for a rule that would require indoor dining to stop if the city’s positive test rate hits 2 percent on a seven-day rolling average. POLITICO’s Erin Durkin  — Fitness studios sued the city over rules requiring them to stay closed.  TIFFANY Cabán, the former public defender who narrowly lost a hard-fought primary for Queens district attorney, announced she would run for City Council in the same Astoria bar where she conceded defeat just over a year ago. Cabán is seeking to win a Council seat that represents western Queens, an area that has become increasingly politically aligned with the progressive movement that voted Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez into Congress... Flanked by state Sens. Jessica Ramos and Michael Gianaris, along with Council Member Jimmy Van Bramer, Cabán introduced herself as a queer Latina who was running out of a love for the borough she grew up in. POLITICO’s Danielle Muoio  “EARLY IN JUNE, when New York City was just entering phase one of its economic ‘reopening’ and the city still had daily triple-digit coronavirus death counts, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced an ambitious plan, the Better Bus Restart Initiative, to add 20 more miles of bus lanes and five new busways by October, in addition to making the 14th Street busway permanent. While this plan, offered during a unique opportunity to rethink city street use, did not go as far as many public officials and advocates would have liked, it was a significant move by a mayor who has paid limited attention to the city’s buses, ridden by about 388,000 people, mostly low-income people of color, each weekday before the pandemic hit. Now, just over three months later, only four of the nine announced bus projects — five busways and four extended bus lanes — have been completed .” Gotham Gazette’s Andrew Millman  — A purported crackdown against parking placard abuse has not revoked a placard from a single city employee.      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  “THE $300 a week in additional unemployment benefits for New Yorkers impacted by COVID-19 will start to go out next week, the state Department of Labor said late Thursday. About 2.4 million residents will be eligible retroactively for the additional weekly unemployment benefits for three weeks in August under the Lost Wages Assistance program, the agency said. And 435,000 of them will need to submit an additional certification to qualify for the $300. ‘We are emailing all New Yorkers who are receiving benefits to inform them of their status and, if needed, provide information about certifying for the Lost Wages Assistance program,’ labor commissioner Roberta Reardon said in a statement.” USA Today Network’s Joseph Spector  “NEW YORK’S new online system for obtaining absentee ballots received more than 220,000 requests in its first week — about half of all absentee ballots sought during the entire 2016 presidential campaign, according to the state Board of Elections. For the first time, the state has provided a way for registered voters to apply online for absentee ballots that they then can mail in or drop off at early voting sites, local boards of election or at polling places on Election Day. Earlier this year, the state Legislature and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo changed state election law to allow online applications for voters concerned about the spread of the coronavirus at polling places. The online system started last Wednesday.” Newsday’s Mike Gormley  — Thousands of New York voters who applied for an absentee ballot prior to Aug. 20 by claiming "temporary illness" will have to reapply.  “MIDDLE- AND HIGH-SCHOOL students in the state’s capital city would have had the option of some classroom time this fall semester under the district’s reopening plan. But those plans were scrapped a week before schools opened — not on account of the new coronavirus, but because of a reduction in state funding. The City School District of Albany voted late on Tuesday to lay off 222 employees and scrap plans to offer in-person instruction to students in grades 7 to 12. The sudden change frustrated parents and teachers in the district, who said they feared recent immigrants, refugees and other at-risk students would be adversely affected. Albany’s layoffs were some of the first direct fallout from Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s administration withholding $300 million in aid from districts across New York over the summer as the state grapples with a $14.5 billion deficit that stems in large part from the coronavirus pandemic. Because some schools are more reliant on state grants than others, these cuts have disproportionately affected urban districts in the Capital Region and elsewhere, education officials say.” Wall Street Journal’s Jimmy Vielkind  — New York health officials are considering requiring flu vaccines for students returning to classrooms in New York.  — In higher education, SUNY Albany has seen a recent coronavirus outbreak that could halt in-person classes for the fall if “not addressed immediately,” the university president said.  #UpstateAmerica: It’s the most wonderful time of the year. The first fall foliage report is out , gracing us with poetry like “summer greens are starting the progression to autumn splendor with traces of mustard, goldenrod, and copper. As usual, the soft maples are supplying a sporadic, scarlet splash.”  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      TRUMP'S NEW YORK  “THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION has secretly siphoned nearly $4 million away from a program that tracks and treats FDNY firefighters and medics suffering from 9/11 related illnesses, the Daily News has learned. The Treasury Department mysteriously started withholding parts of payments — nearly four years ago — meant to cover medical services for to firefighters, emergency medical technicians and paramedics treated by the FDNY World Trade Center Health Program, documents obtained by The News reveal. The payments were authorized and made by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which oversees the program. But instead of sending the funds to the city, the agency started keeping some of the money.” New York Daily News’ Michael McCauliff  “A FEDERAL COURT ruled Thursday that President Trump’s order to exclude undocumented immigrants from census numbers for apportioning congressional districts is unlawful. A unanimous three-judge panel for the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York said in its decision that Trump's executive memorandum violates the executive branch's ‘constitutional responsibility to count the whole number of persons in each State and to apportion members of the House of Representatives among the States according to their respective numbers.’” The Hill’s Harper Neidig  — “New York City is racing against the clock to count as many residents as possible for the U.S. Census, raising fears that a significant slice of the population will be left unaccounted for, costing the city crucial federal resources for the next decade.”  ... 2020 VISION ...  MINOR PARTIES have long enjoyed a uniquely significant role in the state’s political process, thanks in part to fusion voting. But because of a new law that came about after years of feuding between Gov. Andrew Cuomo and the Working Families Party, those parties could be relegated to irrelevance after November's election. They are all scrambling to ensure that doesn't happen. The rules governing minor parties have been pretty straightforward since the 1930s: If they got 50,000 votes in a gubernatorial election, they enjoyed four years’ worth of perks such as looser campaign finance limits, automatic ballot status in statewide races and special elections, and state-funded primaries. Now, they’ll need to hit a total of either 130,000 votes or 2 percent of the electorate, whichever is higher. They’ll need to hit this mark in every presidential and gubernatorial contest, instead of just the gubernatorial one. Here’s where the state’s minor parties plans are as they attempt to drive up their vote totals in November’s presidential election. POLITICO’s Bill Mahoney  FROM THE DELEGATION  “SEN. MINORITY LEADER Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) denounced the Republican’s much-ballyhooed ‘skinny’ economic relief bill on Thursday for abandoning New York’s mass transit and their ridership during a fiscal and health crisis unseen for nearly a century. Schumer angrily decried the GOP for giving a legislative middle finger to the Metropolitan Transit Authority and other mass transit systems, which have experienced catastrophic declines in ridership during the pandemic. ‘The Republican bill flatlined New York, it flatlined the MTA, it flatlined the working people who ride public transportation every day,’ Schumer told the News. He said the GOP showed its true colors by including ignoring the multi-billion dollar budget crisis faced by mass transit agencies like the MTA.” New York Daily News’ Dave Goldiner      AROUND NEW YORK  — “Children in pediatric nursing homes who haven’t been able to hug or kiss their parents for six months will have an easier path to family visits,” with new coronavirus guidance from the state.  — At least 16 school staffers have now tested positive for the coronavirus, according to the teachers union.  — A number of top Department of Education officials have stepped down as the city attempts to pull off its school reopening.  — One in five city teachers have been approved for exemptions to work from home this year.  — Midwood residents filed a lawsuit seeking to stop a city charter school serving at-risk, mostly Black teens from operating out of the East Midwood Jewish Center.  — WEST INDIAN AMERICAN DAY: “‘It’s Like Church to Us’: A Brooklyn Tradition Goes On ”  — Shelter Island’s north and south ferries are facing uncertainty during the pandemic.  — A judge tossed the felony drug conviction of a man found guilty of moving heroin through the Capital Region, saying Albany County prosecutors acted irresponsibly during the trial.  — “The Secret History of America’s Only WWII Refugee Camp,” via NYT: “At the height of the war, 982 refugees fleeing the Nazis were invited by President Roosevelt to a converted military base in upstate New York.”  SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: former DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson, a partner at Paul, Weiss, is 63 … Maria Bartiromo, global markets editor and anchor at Fox News and Fox Business Network … Emily Esfahani Smith ... DLA Piper’s Tom Boyd ... NY1 reporter and POLITICO alum Gloria Pazmino … Markos Moulitsas, founder of Daily Kos and co-founder of Vox Media, is 49 … Jon Meyersohn … former Solicitor General Ted Olson is 8-0 … Michael Hardaway, senior adviser/comms director for House Democratic Caucus Chair Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), is 39 … Andrew Sagarin  MEDIAWATCH — “Megyn Kelly Launches Into Podcasting With New Venture,” by WSJ’s Anne Steele  — “How the New York Times editorial page got sued by Sarah Palin,” by Bill Grueskin in Columbia Journalism Review  — YASHAR ALI: “Scoop: ‘View’ Co-host Sunny Hostin Says ABC News Attempted to Censor Forthcoming Memoir”  FOR YOUR RADAR — Per a statement: “When We All Vote announced that the organization will host Fuel the Vote, a series of drive-thru food and voter registration drives, in nine cities across the country. … When We All Vote is partnering with Project Isaiah, a coronavirus relief organization that has provided more than 2.5 million meals to those in need during the pandemic, as well as Wondaland Arts Society, Live Nation Urban, The United State of Women, SoundExchange and Audiomack for all Fuel the Vote events.”  — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT): “Giuliani’s annual Sept. 11 dinner — which began as an event for former staff members but grew to be an extended thing — is not happening this year bc of COVID, former aides say. Last year, the dinner was notable for presence of Lev Parnas and Igor Fruman, who were recording it.”      REAL ESTATE  “CENTURY 21 STORES, an iconic New York off-price department store chain, filed for bankruptcy with plans to shut down, becoming the latest victim of the retail industry carnage that’s accelerated during the pandemic. The retailer will hold going out of business sales at its 13 stores in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Florida, according to a company statement. The company listed assets and liabilities of as much as $500 million each in its bankruptcy petition filed Thursday. The company had ‘no viable alternative’ to shutting down after its insurance providers failed to pay some $175 million Century 21 claims it’s owed under business interruption policies, Co-Chief Executive Officer Raymond Gindi said in the statement.” Bloomberg’s Jeremy Hill    Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold New fines for mask violators on public transit — 9/11 commemorations altered by pandemic — Business leaders press de Blasio on quality of life