Industry City fight — Rochester police commanders sought to hide Prude footage — Thousands struggle months after Covid infection Presented by Uber  Battle lines have been drawn over Industry City, one of the biggest development proposals on the table for New York’s post-pandemic future. The Brooklyn project, which reached the City Council for a hearing Tuesday, would expand the hub on Sunset Park’s waterfront with retail, offices and more manufacturing, and if you believe the developers, spur the creation of 15,000 new jobs.  On one side is City Council Member Carlos Menchaca, who believes it will drive gentrification in his district and whose opposition would normally be enough to kill the proposal under the Council’s traditions. On the other is a vocal contingent of Council Democrats — Ritchie Torres, Donovan Richards, and Robert Cornegy — who believe a city in an economic crisis cannot afford to lose out on potentially thousands of jobs, and want the body to override Menchaca and allow it to go forward.  In the middle: Bill de Blasio. Amid questions about what his vision for the city’s economic recovery looks like, the mayor has steadfastly declined to take a position. Council members lamented that City Hall has been missing in action, per the Real Deal , and support may hinge on the mayor wading in at the last minute. But on Tuesday, he was sticking to his stance that this isn’t his problem because it’s a private proposal. “The important thing is to let the City Council do its deliberations for now,” he said. Also unclear is the position of Council Speaker Corey Johnson, who finds himself caught between activists on the left and pro-business forces as he mulls whether to go forward with his own run for mayor.  Reps questioned the developers on whether their jobs projections can be believed, considering that the city’s economy has tanked since the estimates were first made. A vote is due by November.  IT’S WEDNESDAY. Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected] , or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? No public schedule by press time.  WHERE’S BILL? Holding a media availability.  ABOVE THE FOLD: “ROCHESTER POLICE commanders urged city officials to hold off on publicly releasing body camera footage of Daniel Prude’s suffocation death because they feared violent blowback if the video came out during nationwide protests over the police killing of George Floyd, newly released emails show. Deputy Chief Mark Simmons cited the ‘current climate’ in the city and the nation in a June 4 email advising then-Chief La’ron Singletary to press the city’s lawyers to deny a Prude family lawyer’s public records request for the footage of the March 23 encounter that led to his death. The video, finally made public by Prude’s family on Sept. 4, shows Prude handcuffed and naked with a spit hood over his head as an officer pushes his face against the ground, while another officer presses a knee to his back. The officers held him down for about two minutes until he stopped breathing. He was taken off life support a week later. ‘We certainly do not want people to misinterpret the officers’ actions and conflate this incident with any recent killings of unarmed black men by law enforcement nationally,’ Simmons wrote. ‘That would simply be a false narrative, and could create animosity and potentially violent blow back in this community as a result.’ The Western New York city released the emails, police reports and other documents on Monday as Mayor Lovely Warren fired Singletary and suspended Corporation Counsel Tim Curtin and Communications Director Justin Roj without pay for 30 days amid continuing fallout from Prude’s death. Simmons was named interim chief of the police department.” Associated Press’ Michael R. Sisak  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  “THE ILLNESS was supposed to last for three weeks, doctors told her. But weeks four through six of COVID-19 were the worst for Holly MacDonald. Her low-grade fever morphed into an all-around fatigue. She began having trouble speaking. And when she stood up, her legs and feet turned purple. ‘I’d walk too far and then I’d need to be in bed for three days,’ said MacDonald, who is 29 and lives in Crown Heights. She had to take administrative leave from her job at a nonprofit where she builds social-media campaigns. A month after getting sick in early March, MacDonald was back in the ER, frustrated as she tried to convince her doctors she was mired in her second month of what, she’d been told, was a three-week respiratory virus. She’s still not fully recovered. MacDonald is one of upwards of 70,000 New Yorkers struggling with unexplained long-term symptoms of COVID-19, according to a range of estimates provided by several New York City-area doctors and hospitals contacted by THE CITY.” The City’s Luca Powell  “NEW YORK CITY officials know Covid-19 cases will climb this fall. The question they are watching as the city moves to reopen is, just how much? For months, the city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene has been working with academic groups at Columbia University and New York University. The academic teams have been asked to model case numbers, help predict needed hospital resources and to advise the city on how to open up workplaces, schools, restaurants and more. The disclosure Tuesday of a Covid-19 case at the New York offices of JPMorgan Chase & Co. is likely just the latest example of what will happen as businesses push to get workers back to the office, and people begin going back to school and returning to restaurants and gyms. In interviews, experts from two academic groups working with New York described what’s likely to be a significant increase in cases this fall, but with the opportunity to stop the worst with careful public-health measures like masks and social distancing.” Bloomberg’s Drew Armstrong  THE DE BLASIO ADMINISTRATION shut down in-person learning at a yeshiva in Queens Tuesday morning after at least 13 cases of Covid-19 were confirmed at the school and another six cases are suspected, according to the mayor's office. City Hall officials determined Monday night to suspend in-person learning at Yeshiva Darchei Torah in Far Rockaway. "Following discussions with senior City Department of Health officials and the yeshiva leadership, we have proposed moving the school to remote learning for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday to complete a health investigation and protect students and staff from COVID transmission, given evidence of cases across multiple age levels," mayoral spokesman Bill Neidhardt said in an email. POLITICO’s David Giambusso and Amanda Eisenberg  — The yeshiva continued holding in-person classes Tuesday despite the shutdown order.  — A lawsuit by teachers afraid to go back to school amid the Covid-19 pandemic could force the Department of Education to open the floodgates on virus exemptions for teachers just days before the start of classroom learning Monday.  — Another public school has been temporarily closed by the city after two staff members tested positive for Covid-19.  — Teachers at a Manhattan high school, who have worked outside because they say their building is unsafe, were threatened with docked pay if they didn’t return to their classrooms.  — There will be no such thing as snow days in the upcoming school year.  “NEW YORK CITY will restore some trash-collecting services that were cut earlier this summer, Mayor Bill de Blasio said, after complaints about cleanliness and a recent letter from business leaders urging him to improve what they see as deteriorating conditions. The mayor said on Tuesday that he would reallocate some funding to the city’s Department of Sanitation and other agencies to cover the restored services. The cuts to the department were part of a belt-tightening budget and made in response to a financial crisis brought on by the coronavirus pandemic.” Wall Street Journal’s Katie Honan  UNDER CRITICISM from business leaders, Mayor Bill de Blasio encouraged private employers Tuesday to begin bringing their workforces back to Manhattan offices. De Blasio said the city is working on a plan to require its own hundreds of thousands of employees to return to work in person, though it will be phased in gradually to make sure the coronavirus stays under control. Under the state’s reopening plan, offices have been allowed to operate at 50 percent of their legal capacity since June. Yet the vast majority of office workers have stayed away: A survey by business groups found that only 8 percent had returned by mid-August, and just over a quarter expected to be back by the beginning of the year. POLITICO’s Erin Durkin      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  “THE CUOMO administration is relaxing coronavirus restrictions at nursing homes to allow family members in-person visits with loved ones for the first time since the pandemic hit in March. The announcement Tuesday by state Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker comes just three days after relatives of nursing home residents held a rally outside the governor’s Manhattan office protesting the restrictive policy. The new policy will resume limited visitation for facilities that have been without COVID-19 for at least 14 days — half the 28-day rule that has been in effect since early July. Nursing home advocates and family members said the 28-day infection free policy was too restrictive, with only a small percentage of the 613 nursing homes meeting the criteria to allow visitors. But Zucker said the updated guidance will allow visitation in approximately 500 of the state’s 613 nursing homes.” New York Post’s Carl Campanile and Bernadette Hogan  “HUNDREDS of thousands of New York motorists have put off their vehicle inspection during the COVID-19 pandemic, leaving auto shops bracing for an onslaught of customers whenever Gov. Andrew Cuomo decides to restore the annual requirement. As of Sept. 4, New York auto shops had performed 739,000 fewer inspections since March compared to the average over the same period the prior five years, a decrease of about 11%, according to the state Department of Motor Vehicles.” USA Today Network’s Jon Campbell  “A WEEK after health officials warned Labor Day weekend could bring a possible uptick in COVID-19 cases, that holiday doesn't appear to have contributed to a surge in New York — but out-of-state travel is still considered one of the core threats to the state's low infection rate.  Puerto Rico was added back to the tri-state quarantine list Tuesday, Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont announced, while six states — California, Hawaii, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada and Ohio — were removed, bringing the number of restricted U.S. areas to 30. Travelers to New York, New Jersey and Connecticut from those 30 places must quarantine for 14 days upon arriving in the tri-state area.” NBC New York  — Trick-or-treating will survive the coronavirus in New York, Cuomo says.  — Cuomo is not keen to open concerts and comedy clubs any time soon.  — “A Brooklyn bar is suing Cuomo over his midnight food curfew for indoor dining in the city, claiming the rule will not protect customers from COVID-19 and will further hurt already struggling businesses.”  “NEW YORK’S fiscal year is nearly half over, and the state budget remains billions of dollars out of balance , largely due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic related economic shutdown. So far, Governor Andrew Cuomo has been relying on temporary measures to keep the state afloat, but fiscal experts say it’s time to make some hard decisions. E.J. McMahon, with the conservative leaning fiscal watchdog group, the Empire Center, and Ron Deutsch, with the liberal leaning Fiscal Policy Institute, do agree on some things. One- that the amount of the state deficit is huge, Cuomo’s budget office estimates it has grown to $14.5 billion dollars. And two, that it’s time to be worried. ‘I think alarm bells should be going off all over the place right now,’ Deutsch said.” New York State Public Radio’s Karen DeWitt  — "Despite a fiscal crisis that led Governor Cuomo to withhold aid payments for school districts and local governments, the Cuomo administration since spring has approved more than $46 million in new pork-barrel capital grants.”  “OFFICIALS at the state Department of Labor on Monday terminated a fugitive with a lengthy criminal history, including arrests for identification theft, who had been among hundreds of clerks hired since March to help process unemployment claims…His termination, which was confirmed by sources in the department, came a day after the Times Union published a story revealing his criminal history and that highlighted what employees in the department characterized as a loosening of the verification process to approve more than 3 million unemployment claims since the coronavirus pandemic struck New York earlier this year.” Times Union’s Brendan J. Lyons  GOV. Andrew Cuomo is blaming politicians beholden to utility interests for limiting penalties those companies can face when the lights go out. “These utility companies, I believe, would rather pay these penalties for slow response than invest the money they need to actually prevent it from happening,” Cuomo said Tuesday during a radio appearance with Long Island’s Jay Oliver. “There’s a state law that says the state is limited as to how much they can penalize a utility company after a storm or anything like that ... This is a utility protection program.” ... Senate Democrats, who won a majority for the first time in decades in 2018, took issue with Cuomo’s comments. “We agree with the governor that the previous Republican Senate majority was on the side of utility companies and not the public,” said Mike Murphy, spokesperson for the Senate Democrats. “We look forward to changing that." POLITICO’s Marie J. French  #UpstateAmerica: A Tonawanda crematorium has been shut down until further notice after a plume of black smoke blanketed the nearby area .  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      TRUMP'S NEW YORK  “THE HEALTH department’s top spokesperson Michael Caputo called an emergency staff meeting on Tuesday to apologize for drawing negative attention to the Trump administration’s health care strategy and signaled that he might be soon departing his role, according to five people with knowledge of the meeting. ...Three people with knowledge of Caputo’s decision-making confirmed that he was mulling stepping aside as the department’s assistant secretary for public affairs to take medical leave. One former HHS official told POLITICO that Caputo, a former Trump campaign official, has long complained of the stress caused by having been mentioned in the special counsel's investigation on Russian interference in the 2016 election. During the meeting with his staff on Tuesday, Caputo made allusions to the fact that HHS had functioned for a long time in the past without a permanent top communications official, said one HHS official. Caputo also disputed anonymous White House criticism about his mental health — saying that some of his comments have been taken out of context — and concluded the meeting by encouraging his staff to listen to music by the Grateful Dead. POLITICO’s Adam Cancryn, Dan Diamond and Sarah Owermohle  FROM THE DELEGATION  — Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is calling for the resignation of Trump administration health secretary Alex Azar, amid mounting evidence of political interference in the federal government’s coronavirus response.  “KNOWN FOR HIS passionate defense for 9/11 first responders, Jon Stewart as well as U.S. Sen. Kristin Gillibrand, and other 9/11 advocates called BS on Congress and the federal government again, this time on behalf of veterans and service members sickened by exposure to burning pits of toxic trash. ‘Welcome to another exciting episode of, "When is America going to start acting like the great country we keep telling ourselves we are?"' the former Daily Show host told reporters on Capitol Hill Tuesday .” New York Daily News’ Michael McAuliff  ... 2020 VISION ...  “THE ONLY REPUBLICAN elected official in Queens says he’s backing Donald Trump for re-election, four years after publicly rejecting his party’s pick for president. Eric Ulrich, a third-term councilmember from Ozone Park and a former ‘Never Trumper,’ said his ‘conscience’ tells him to vote for Trump, though he disagrees with the president’s racist rants, treatment of women and hardcore stance on deportation. ‘We disagree on so many things. It’s amazing,’ Ulrich said, citing his own positions in favor of marriage equality, immigration reform, organized-labor and abortion rights. ‘But we have to ultimately look deep within ourselves and examine our own consciences.’ ‘If the election was held today I’d be voting for Donald Trump.’” Queens Eagle’s David Brand      AROUND NEW YORK  — The city has already recorded more murders in 2020 than in the entirety of last year.  — The outbreak at SUNY Oneonta has called into question the administration’s management of the coronavirus, and SUNY’s oversight practices.  — The NYPD and FBI inspected the home of a Queens man over what they suspected to be “bomb making materials.”  — The number of state legislators holding outside jobs steadily declined through the years before reaching its lowest point in 2019.  — Businesses around Yankee Stadium are suffering without fans at games and looking to the team for relief.  — The MTA has completed the installation of OMNY, its new electronic fare payment system to replace the MetroCard, at all of the subway stations in Manhattan.  — Coney Island amusements are calling for financial assistance after being required to stay closed for the entire summer season.  — The Columbia University Marching Band is dissolving , citing its own history of racism and sexism.  — A Tyrannosaurus rex has arrived at Christie’s flagship Midtown location.  — The city launched an ad campaign urging New Yorkers to get flu shots.  — The state will be dropping old train cars off the coast of Long Island Wednesday to help boost the area’s artificial reef.  — New York reached a settlement with Dunkin’ Brands, Inc. over a lawsuit that accused the company of failing to adequately respond to cyberattacks.  — Former lobbyist Robert Scott Gaddy, accused of bribery, is scheduled to plead guilty to a federal crime Wednesday.  — A bill introduced in the City Council would decriminalize jaywalking.  SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: Tamron Hall … Josh Benson, co-founder and partner at Old Town Media, is 47 … Jason Zengerle, NYT Magazine writer at large … Luke Hornblower is 39 (h/t wife Sarah Clark Hornblower) … Andy Serwer is 61 … Molly Hensley-Clancy, BuzzFeed national politics reporter … Richard Engel, chief foreign correspondent for NBC … Josh Ginsberg, VP of public affairs marketing at Facebook … Melissa Lafsky … Tristan White … former Rep. Mike McNulty (D-N.Y.) is 73 ... former Rep. Eric Massa (D-N.Y.) is 61 ... Rory Hammond … Angelica Grimaldi, senior editorial producer at CNN ... WSJ’s Rachel Louise Ensign … Sara Goo, executive editor at Axios … Scott Spector … Dawn Smalls, partner at Jenner & Block  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK — Michael Cohen, President Trump's former longtime fixer who recently launched a weekly podcast called “Mea Culpa,” is interviewing fellow Trump exile Anthony Scaramucci for the second episode which will be released Monday. Cohen’s podcast, whose first guest was Rosie O’Donnell, is the 27th most popular on Apple Podcasts. Last week, Cohen released “Disloyal: A Memoir: The True Story of the Former Personal Attorney to President Donald J. Trump,” which is currently 5th on Amazon. Pic of Cohen recording his podcast  BOOK CLUB — Tony Schwartz, who ghost-wrote “The Art of the Deal,” is out with a new audiobook, “Dealing with the Devil: My Mother, Trump, and Me.” Amazon  WEEKEND WEDDING — Harry Whalen, co-owner of Great Flats Brewing in Schenectady, this weekend married Haley Priebe, owner/founder of Arthur 1795, a cafe and market that’s soon to open in the historic district of Schenectady. Pic      REAL ESTATE  “A GROUP OF tenants filed a lawsuit Tuesday accusing Kushner Companies of illegally collecting rent and creating dangerous living conditions by failing to maintain working fire sprinkler systems in four New York City apartment buildings. The tenants in ‘Kushner Village’ in the East Village neighborhood of Manhattan want a state judge to block Kushner Companies from collecting rent and force it to complete work on the sprinklers and other fire safety measures. ‘I'm more concerned about a fire starting now than I used to be,’ said Daniel Porvin, who has lived in one of the buildings for about 35 years and is a plaintiff in the lawsuit.” CNN’s Kara Scannell    Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold Industry City fight — Rochester police commanders sought to hide Prude footage — Thousands struggle months after Covid infection