Not all reviews are 5 stars as indoor dining returns — BOE to resend 100K ballot packages — Court rejects rent regulation challenge Presented by Uber  New York City restaurants might be back to serving customers indoors , but they’re hardly back to normal. With day one of indoor dining on the books, one of the city’s most vital industries is looking ahead to many more months to come of tight restrictions, nervous diners, and a tenuous chance to recover from the beating they’ve already taken over six months of partial closures.  The state gave the OK for restaurants to open at 25 percent of their normal capacity in the five boroughs, compared to 50 percent in the rest of the state. The reopening, once scheduled for July, had been pushed back out of fears that patrons eating and drinking indoors would fuel the spread of the coronavirus. Indoor dining is going forward for now despite a recent spike in the city’s infection rates, but the upticks add to an atmosphere of uncertainty as the fall progresses.  Some restaurant owners proudly threw open the doors to their dining rooms on Wednesday, while others didn’t bother, saying it isn’t worth it financially, or they aren’t confident their customers and employees would feel safe. “It’s not going to be like it was before,” said Edward Vila, the manager of Ecuatoriana in Harlem, who is offering indoor tables but said most of his customers are opting for takeout. Amorina Cucina Rustica owner Ellen Fishman said the Prospect Heights restaurant will stick with popular outdoor seating. “I don’t believe many people would be comfortable with it and I don’t believe my staff would be comfortable,” she said.  The state plans to review Covid-19 numbers and decide whether to increase capacity to 50 percent in November. The city says restaurants can expect inspections to check compliance, which include mandatory temperature checks for diners and a prohibition on bar seating, especially in the Brooklyn and Queens neighborhoods where coronavirus clusters are spreading. And count Mayor Bill de Blasio among the diners who aren’t eager to head back indoors. “I personally just prefer outdoor dining, and as long as it’s available I would always choose it,” he said.  IT’S THURSDAY. Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected] , or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? In Albany with no public events scheduled.  WHERE’S BILL? Holding a media availability.  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  “DESPITE INCREASED public-awareness campaigns, testing efforts and enforcement, the percentage of people testing positive for Covid-19 continued to rise in several New York City neighborhoods, prompting Gov. Andrew Cuomo to say that the city isn’t doing enough to prevent the spread. Six of eight hot-spot areas, in South Brooklyn and Queens, saw an increase in the share of people testing positive for Covid-19, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a press conference Wednesday. The city is also monitoring four additional areas, he said, where the rate of people testing positive for the virus is trending up. Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, said the seven-day rate of people who test positive is 1.46%, up from Tuesday. The one-day positivity rate was less than 1% on Wednesday, down from 3.25% on Tuesday, a high that hadn’t been seen since early June. ‘It is so important for everyone to go out and get tested,’ said Mr. de Blasio … Mr. de Blasio said the city would send some 400 police officers and hundreds of other city workers to the affected areas to provide free masks and remind New Yorkers that wearing them is the law.” Wall Street Journal’s Melanie Grayce West and Jimmy Vielkind  — The city’s Test and Trace program has fewer than half a dozen Yiddish speakers on staff as city officials struggle to contain the growing coronavirus outbreak in several neighborhoods with large Orthodox Jewish populations in Brooklyn and Queens.  LINCOLN RESTLER, a former aide to Mayor Bill de Blasio who got his start in politics taking on the Brooklyn Democratic Party machine, is running for City Council in a crowded primary. Restler registered a campaign account on Tuesday for the eight-way race to replace the term-limited Steve Levin in a district that spans wealthy Brooklyn Heights, hipster havens of Williamsburg and Greenpoint and an Orthodox Jewish area that is instrumental in local elections. He is kicking off his campaign with a proposal to curtail the free-market will of property owners through legislation in the city and Albany that would limit how much rent they could charge for vacant residential and commercial spaces. In doing so, he also took a swipe at de Blasio’s record on affordable housing, saying it resembled that of his political nemesis and predecessor, pro-business Mayor Mike Bloomberg. POLITICO’s Sally Goldenberg  “NYPD OFFICERS who don’t wear masks should face ‘penalties,’ Mayor Bill de Blasio said Wednesday — nearly seven months into a pandemic and after months of dodging the issue. ‘Our officers should be held to the same standard as all citizens [in] all public standards,’ de Blasio said during a press conference. ‘If they don’t there should be penalties,’ he added of the governor’s executive order issued in April requiring face-coverings when social distancing isn’t possible. The mayor went on to claim the ‘vast majority are in fact wearing masks’ — while at the same moment, reporters counted at least 18 cops huddled outside the press room at 1 Police Plaza with only three wearing masks. At least 16 more were seen congregated near an elevator bank with none spied wearing masks.” New York Post’s Julia Marsh and Craig McCarthy  “THE NEW YORK City Council is set to vote on expelling Bronx lawmaker Andy King from the body on Monday after its ethics watchdog hit the councilman with a new slew of charges, alleging he continued to abuse his staff and stole city funds. The Council posted a notice of a rare Monday meeting, which sources confirmed was to consider removing the misbehaving Democrat from office. Any expulsion vote requires a two-thirds majority in the body, which appears likely as Council Speaker Corey Johnson said Tuesday he would back the move and King appears to have few allies left in the body. The Council’s ethics committee announced Tuesday it had found substantial evidence of misbehavior by King — ending the panel’s third investigation into allegations against the politician who was once best known for wearing bow-ties.” New York Post’s Nolan Hicks  “CITIGROUP EXECUTIVE Ray McGuire is turning to one of his closest associates in the business community to guide him on what appears to be a likely run for mayor of New York. McGuire, according to people familiar with the matter, has turned to Charles Phillips, the former CEO of the software company Infor, as an advisor while he seriously considers running for the city’s highest office. Phillips, these people added, has been in on meetings with potential supporters, including those with ties to Wall Street, and others guiding McGuire on his potential run.” CNBC’s Brian Schwartz      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  “RENSSELAER County officials refused to let a state Health Department inspection team into the county nursing home Wednesday, saying the inspectors wouldn’t provide proof they had tested negative for COVID-19. It is a continuation of a clash between the county and state over access to the nursing home. ‘We just wanted the state to follow the state rules,’ said Richard Crist, the county's director of operations. Crist said the county wanted the group of about seven Health Department employees to either show paperwork that they had tested negative for the virus or to sign a county-provided form attesting that they had tested negative for the disease. The state group departed Van Rensselaer Manor (VRM), the county nursing home, around 10 a.m., according to county officials. Similar scenes played out in July.” Times Union’s Kenneth C. Crowe II  “IN AN EFFORT to detect surges of Covid-19 patients earlier, before they arrive at an emergency room, one New York hospital system is turning to web-browsing traffic . Officials for Northwell Health, which operates 23 hospitals, have developed a predictive model that examines more than a dozen data points in millions of page views of its website to determine when physicians might reliably see an uptick in the number of people coming to the hospital and testing positive for Covid-19. Using data from the first six months of the pandemic in New York, officials found that changes in certain areas of web traffic preceded Covid-19 positive diagnoses in the hospital by two weeks.” Wall Street Journal’s Melanie Grayce West  TWO DOWNSTATE FOSSIL FUEL PLANTS plants facing tougher emissions limits and eventual extinction are making a longshot promise that they could someday burn hydrogen produced from sun and wind energy. But clean energy groups say the pitch is a mirage — a last-ditch effort by the plants to avoid closure by suggesting they can make the switch from burning fossil fuels to a technology that is, so far, not available for widespread use and would present enormous costs to implement. “It’s so unrealistic that it’s almost laughable,” said Carlos Garcia, with the NYC Environmental Justice Alliance. POLITICO’s Marie J. French  "A BIPARTISAN commission tasked with redrawing New York’s legislative and congressional district lines needs money to begin hiring staff. But the Cuomo administration has so far ignored commissioners' requests for funding. The lack of response was alleged during Wednesday's meeting of the Independent Redistricting Commission, a 10-person panel created by a 2014 amendment to New York’s constitution that was supposed to give greater voice to both political parties during the once-a-decade drawing of district lines.... But amid a major budget deficit, the agency has not released those funds to the commission, even as the body faces tight deadlines to complete its work next year. Commissioners said a letter about the lack of funding signed by both the Democratic and Republican appointees got no response from state Budget Director Robert Mujica and legislative leaders." Times Union's Chris Bragg  PATERSON WATCH: “Former Gov. David Paterson is joining the lobbying and communications firm Kivvit, joining several former staffers to Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Paterson most recently and briefly was the public face of a coalition pushing back against increasing taxes on wealthy New Yorkers. Paterson has also worked on an effort backing a Sheldon Adelson-owned casino for New York City. His job at Kivvit will focus on ‘strategic counsel’ and helping implement diversity, equity and inclusion plans at the firm.” Spectrum’s Nick Reisman  #UpstateAmerica: Franklin County mailed out roughly 1,500 ballots with Joe Biden’s running mate listed as “Kamal D. Harris.”  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      ... 2020 VISION ...  “THE NEW YORK City Board of Elections plans to move forward with a plan to mail new absentee ballot packages to nearly 100,000 voters potentially impacted by a printer error made by a vendor hired by the agency, despite a recommendation from Governor Andrew Cuomo’s office to reverse the plan and only send out new absentee ballot envelopes. Instead, the Cuomo administration wanted the Board to mail voters just the corrected absentee ballot return envelopes, asking voters to use the ballots they were sent in the first erroneous mailing. On Monday, voters in Brooklyn who opened their absentee ballots found their return envelopes—known as the ‘oath’ envelope because the voter signs it—labeled with the wrong names and addresses. … The suggestion came at a time when mail-in balloting is under intense scrutiny, particularly by President Trump and his supporters.” WNYC’s Brigid Bergin  — “The New York City Board of Elections has not submitted a state-mandated report on its staffing needs for this fall, blowing past a September 20 deadline set by Governor Andrew Cuomo and raising concerns about the city’s preparedness for the consequential general election. It is the only jurisdiction in the state to miss the deadline, according to officials at the State Board of Elections, to which the reports are due. The mandate and deadline, set in a late-August executive order, was intended to ensure election administrators were ready for a record number of votes, and ready to count them quickly, including a quantity of mailed-in ballots expected to dwarf what they faced in the chaotic June primaries.” Gotham Gazette’s Ethan Geringer-Sameth  TRUMP'S NEW YORK  “A WAVE OF emotions washed over Jesus Lira when he found out that President Trump has only paid a few hundred dollars in federal income taxes since the early 2000s. ‘It was a little bit of everything — angry, sad, confused,’ said Lira, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico who used to work as a cook at Trump’s Westchester County golf club. ‘The president, my former boss, isn’t paying any taxes. How is that even possible?’ Lira, who’s among dozens of undocumented ex-employees of Trump’s company, was referring to a Sunday report by the New York Times that revealed the president paid just $750 per year in federal income tax in 2016 and 2017 and no income tax at all for 10 out of the previous 15 years. Outraged by the bombshell report, Lira and three other undocumented ex-Trump Organization workers provided the Daily News with records this week showing that they paid tens of thousands of dollars in federal income taxes while working for the president — despite their immigration status.” New York Daily News’ Chris Sommerfeldt  FROM THE DELEGATION  “SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez have pulled out of next week’s New Yorker Festival, the star-studded annual event held by The New Yorker magazine, in solidarity with unionized editorial staff members, who are planning a digital picket line. Ms. Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who made an unsuccessful bid to be her party’s presidential nominee, and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, were scheduled to appear as keynote speakers on Monday night, the first night of the annual event. The New Yorker Union had planned a one-night picket then, starting at 8. In a letter last Thursday to the two politicians, the union asked them to reconsider their participation in light of its labor dispute with New Yorker management.” New York Times’ Katie Robertson      AROUND NEW YORK  — Seagram’s liquor heiress and Nxivm cult member Clare Bronfman was sentenced to six years and nine months in prison.  — Cuomo offered a glimpse of hope to Buffalo Bills fans, saying he will tour the stadium himself to discuss the possibility of a limited number of fans attending games in Orchard Park this season.  —Former SUNY Upstate Medical University official Sergio Garcia pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor criminal charge to settle allegations of incredible falsification of his professional background.  — A Queens woman was killed when a stray bullet went through her bedroom window and struck her in the head.  — A Human Rights Watch report found that the NYPD’s aggressive arrests of protesters in the Bronx in June violated human rights laws and will likely cost the city millions of dollars in misconduct lawsuits.  — An assistant commissioner at the Department of Housing Preservation and Development was arrested for using a fake parking placard.  — The New York Sports Club and Lucille Roberts gym companies were slapped with a lawsuit by Attorney General Tish James for illegally charging customers gym membership fees during the Covid-19 shutdown.  — Attorney General Tish James announced that New York will receive nearly $3 million as part of a $39.5 million multistate settlement with Anthem Inc.  SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: Rep. Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) is 45 … Nayyera Haq, SiriusXM Progress host and Obama alum ... Michael Knopf, VP at MediaLink (h/t Christian Emanuel) … CNN correspondent Brian Todd … Rob Seidman … Kenny Cunningham, COO of the Article III Project and founder of Cunningham Communications … Cammie Croft, chief community officer at FWD.us … Catherine Dennig … (was Wednesday): Marc Lasry  FIRST IN NY PLAYBOOK — GARY GINSBERG is writing a book called “First Friends: The Powerful, Unsung (And Unelected) People Who Shaped Our President, and Our Country.” The book about the friendships between nine presidents and their best friends is being published by Twelve, an imprint of Hachette, and will be published next fall. Ginsberg, a Clinton WH alum, most recently ran comms for SoftBank and has also worked in similar roles at Time Warner and News Corp.  MAKING MOVES — Stephan Miller is starting at Kivvit as director of digital strategy. Also joining Kivvit: former New York Gov. David Paterson, Kelly Meissgeier and Josh Vlasto. Announcement … New Deal Strategies has hired Pilar Grullón as executive manager. She previously worked in Mayor de Blasio’s executive office and for the Nevada Democratic party … Matthew Creegan will leave his post as communications director at the city Department of Housing Preservation and Development to become deputy communications director for Joe Biden’s campaign in Georgia.  MEDIWATCH — Per Talking Biz News: “James Surowiecki, who wrote The Financial Page for The New Yorker magazine, has been hired by online business publication Marker to write a regular column called ‘Money Talks.’” … “Emily Suzanne Lever has joined Law360 as a general assignment reporter on the legal industry desk. Previously, she was a blogger at Gothamist.com writing three local news stories a day, covering food, the arts, crime, policy and offbeat stories. She has also interned at The Daily Star and Norwood News.”      REAL ESTATE  A FEDERAL JUDGE on Wednesday dismissed a lawsuit brought by landlord groups that seeks to upend the state’s rent regulation system by deeming it unconstitutional. The Rent Stabilization Association and the Community Housing Improvement Program filed the lawsuit last July alleging that the overhauled regulations enacted in June 2019 — which included a slew of tenant-friendly reforms — amount to an illegal taking of private property. “No precedent binding on this Court has ever found any provision of a rent-stabilization statute to violate the Constitution,” Eric Komitee, district judge for the Eastern District, wrote in a Wednesday decision, adding that even if the June 2019 changes go beyond prior regulations, it's not for a lower court to reverse. POLITICO’s Janaki Chadha  “EMILIE GOLDMAN, a commercial real-estate broker in New York City, rode the subway about eight times a day before the coronavirus pandemic. Now, she mainly splits her trips around town between Revel mopeds, Citi Bikes and Ubers, courtesy of her employer, startup SquareFoot Inc. As New York offices have begun to reopen, perceptions about the safety of public transit remain one of the biggest hurdles for returning employees. Some companies are trying to ease fears by making alternative modes of transportation available through travel stipends, parking passes and free ride-hailing services. ‘It’s definitely helped me go into the office a little bit more,’ said Ms. Goldman, 24 years old, who would take a 10-minute Uber ride to and from the office about once a week in July. She also has begun putting her stipend toward getting to client meetings and office tours, which have picked up after a slow August.” Wall Street Journal’s Stephanie Yang and Paul Berger  Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold Not all reviews are 5 stars as indoor dining returns — BOE to resend 100K ballot packages — Court rejects rent regulation challenge