TRUMP to meet privately with NEWSOM — LA County SHERIFF’S DEPUTIES ambushed — FIRES rage, 22 dead in CA — GYMS, salons open in SF today Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ: Will Donald Trump get his photo op with Gov. Gavin Newsom, after the president slammed California this weekend for its “extreme agenda”?  Trump will hit California Monday, touching down in Air Force One at McClellan Park to meet with federal emergency officials and local leaders about wildfires that have ravaged the state.  And while Newsom will join state fire and emergency officials in the Monday morning briefing with Trump, Newsom’s staff said Sunday night that meeting will be private, as Carla reported. The governor will then depart separately from the president for his own tour of active fire areas of the state, the governor's team said Sunday.  The private session — and Newsom's departure immediately afterward — follow weeks of silence from Trump about the devastating natural disasters in solidly blue California, as Carla detailed Friday.  And it comes on the heels of Trump placing blame on California last month for its wildfires, which have since consumed more than 3 million acres in the state and caused at least 22 deaths here. Newsom replied to the president in an address at the Democratic National Convention, rebuking Trump for saying “we hadn't raked enough leaves."  The stop in California, which has been choking amid some of the world's worst air quality for days, was added over the weekend to Trump’s already planned campaign swing to Arizona and Nevada, where he appeared Sunday.  President Donald Trump arrives to speak at a rally at Xtreme Manufacturing, Sunday, Sept. 13, 2020, in Henderson, Nev. | AP Photo/Andrew Harnik  EVEN AS HE PREPARED TO COME HERE, Trump in Nevada this weekend slammed the state, telling a Minden, Nev. rally that "California has already implemented this extreme agenda. And they're experiencing massive blackouts." On the Western wildfires, he said repeatedly: “Please remember the words — very simple — forest management. Please remember. It’s about forest management.’’  Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, on CNN with Jake Tapper Sunday, called Trump out: “There’s a deep feeling that you get different treatment in this administration, in terms of speed and attention, based on how people have voted."  Newsom on Friday expressed growing anger with those he said are continuing to downplay the effects of climate change — a description that clearly fits Trump. “California, folks, is America fast forward,’’ he said Friday. “What we’re experiencing right here is coming to communities all across the United States of America unless we get our act together on climate change.”  So Newsom on Monday clearly will not want to hand Trump a juicy photo op in front of Air Force One — something the president would no doubt use to his benefit in the next 50 days.  ONE THING’S FOR SURE: Look for the governor to avoid a repeat of the scenario when he praised Trump for his Covid-19 response — “promise made, promise kept” — only to find himself starring in Trump reelection campaign ads.  WAPO’s Philip Bump: “If California wanted Trump to worry about it, it should have been a swing state.’’  BUENOS DÍAS, good Monday morning. Jill Biden will join National Nurses United President Deborah Burger and NNU members for a 1 p.m. roundtable discussion on Covid-19’s impact on safe working conditions and patient safety. Interesting: The Oakland-based affiliate of that union was a big and early backer of Bernie Sanders, both in 2016 and last year.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: "Ka-MA-la, Ka-MA-la. She's another beauty. She's rated the No. 1 most liberal, and I would say if [Joe Biden] ever won, she would be president within the first month. Using him is just an excuse to get the super libs in there, so they could destroy our suburbs, demolish our Second Amendment, erase your borders and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in school.” — Trump at a Minden, Nev. rally on Saturday.  TWEET OF THE DAY: @GavinNewsom reacts to the shooting of two LA County Sheriff's Deputies on Saturday night: “A 31 year-old mother and a 24 year-old are fighting for their lives because of this cowardly, horrific act.The perpetrator must be quickly brought to justice. Praying for a full recovery for the deputies. @JenSiebelNewsom and I are keeping their loved ones in our thoughts.”  PODCAST OF THE DAY — POLITICO Dispatch: POLITICO’s Jeremy Siegel talks to California Playbook’s Carla Marinucci about Trump’s visit, the wildfires and the politics of climate change.  WHERE’S GAVIN? He'll be joining a private morning briefing with the president, then leaving for a viewing of active fire areas.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  COMPTON TRAGEDY — ”Two L.A. County sheriff’s deputies expected to survive attack amid intense manhunt for shooter,” by the LA Times' Alene Tchekmedyian, Matthew Ormseth, Dorany Pineda and Richard Winton: “Two Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies shot in what authorities described as an ambush attack are expected to survive amid an intense manhunt for the gunman captured on video firing inside their patrol car and as the violence became a new flashpoint in the political debate about policing and crime.”  FIRST AMENDMENT? — ”KPCC/LAist reporter arrested while covering story,” by the Pasadena Star News’ Bradley Bermont: “The award-winning journalist was accused of obstructing justice. [Josie] Huang said she was trying to document the rest of a protester.” NPR’s statement on the arrest.  NOT-SO-GOLDEN STATE — “Warmer. Burning. Epidemic-challenged. Expensive. The California Dream has become the California Compromise,” by WaPo’s Heather Kelly, Reed Albergotti, Brady Dennis and Scott Wilson: “California has become a warming, burning, epidemic-challenged and expensive state, with many who live in sophisticated cities, idyllic oceanfront towns and windblown mountain communities thinking hard about the viability of a place they have called home forever. For the first time in a decade, more people left California last year for other states than arrived.”  AB 5 FALLOUT— "A California Law Was Supposed to Give Uber Drivers New Protections. Instead, Comedians Lost Work,” by WSJ’s Eliot Brown.  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  DEATH TOLL RISES — “Winds a worry as death toll reaches 35 from West Coast fires," by AP's Lindsay Whitehurst and Sara Cline: “Nearly all the dozens of people reported missing after a devastating blaze in southern Oregon have been accounted for, authorities said over the weekend as crews battled wildfires that have killed at least 35 from California to Washington state..”  — “Firefighters thought the California blaze was dying. Then it killed at least 12,” by the LA Times’ Joseph Serna: “Firefighters thought a river, one crew of firefighters and one incomplete line of bare earth might keep the Northern California fire from racing toward communities like Berry Creek, officials said. At the time, firefighters said they had few options, so everyone hoped for the best.”  — “Six of California’s largest fires in history ignited this year. Here’s what we know,” by the LA Times’ Shelby Grad.  GREENHOUSE GASES, ORANGE SKIES — ”Western wildfires are an unprecedented, climate change-fueled event, experts say,” by WaPo’s Diana Leonard and Andrew Freedman: “These wildfires are what is known as a compound disaster, in which more than one extreme event takes place at the same time, across a varied geography. While climate scientists have been warning that compound disasters are an inevitable result of human-caused climate change, a spate of simultaneously burning, rapidly expanding fires spanning the entire West Coast was not expected for several more decades if greenhouse gas emissions remain high.”  — ”False Rumors That Activists Set Wildfires Exasperate Officials,” by NYT’s Kate Conger, Davey Alba and Mike Baker.  — Via POLITICO’s Debra Kahn: “California clears way for inmate firefighters to enter profession upon release”  — ”California’s wildfire smoke plumes are unlike anything previously seen,” by WaPo’s Matthew Cappucci.  POWER DISPUTE — ”California wildfires: Reps blast cell companies’ ‘unconscionable’ move to block backup power rules,” by Mercury News’ Nico Savidge: “Cellular companies say they were already working to ensure service is reliable during disasters, and the commission’s mandates go too far.”  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  PANDEMIC IMPATIENCE — ”Coronavirus: Six months after sheltering, why things fell apart,” by Mercury News’ Lisa M. Krieger and John Woolfolk: “Humans are wired to respond to immediate danger, like the earth rumbling beneath our homes. But it’s tougher to sustain vigilance — especially as the closures, initially intended to be brief, have dragged on.”  GYMS, SALONS OPEN IN SF TODAY — “Indoor hair salons, barbershops, gyms can reopen in San Francisco on Monday,” by KRON4’s Tristi Rodriguez and Gayle Ong.  — ”COVID-19 complicates California's record-setting wildfire season,” by The Hill’s Rebecca Beitsch and Scott Wong.  — "Coronavirus: California continues to beat back outbreak after deadliest day in the Bay Area," by Mercury News' Aldo Toledo.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  — ”Some California Latinos spooked by Trump’s disinformation about voting,” by SF Chronicle’s Joe Garofoli: “Latinos in particular were affected by the litany of disparaging comments Trump has made about immigrants and the need to build a wall along the southern border, in addition to his disparagement of mail voting.”  SPOTTED, h/t POLITICO Playbook’s Daniel Lippman: National security adviser Robert O'Brien on Friday touring Skunk Works, Lockheed Martin's famous R&D facility in Palmdale, California. When asked about the secret weapons system that Trump bragged about to Bob Woodward, O'Brien told Fox News on Wednesday: "You can rest assured that we can protect the United States of America against any threat that's out there because of the excellent manufacturing that we do here, the research and development that we do here and the fine servicemen and women who man those platforms."  The AP’s Robert Burns reported on Friday that Trump may have been referring to W76-2 warhead that is the "business end of a Trident II D-5 missile carried aboard Navy ballistic missile submarines."  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK — WILLIE BROWN RAISING MONEY FOR GOP GROUP: That was the scene in San Francisco over the weekend, as the former mayor and Assembly speaker combined forfes with businessman Ron Conway to raise $150,000 for Project Lincoln. That’s the group run by disaffected Republicans like CA strategist Mike Madrid and former CAGOP spokesperson Steve Schmidt, who are working to defeat Trump in the 2020 election. Brown held court at SF’s John’s Grill as part of a national fundraising event that featured Mary Trump, Jason Alexander and Project Lincoln principles Reed Galen and Rick Wilson.  COMING FOR KAMALA — “Trump, struggling to define Biden, steps up Harris attacks,” by AP’s Kathleen Ronayne and Jonathan Lemire: “The racism and sexism underlying Trump’s critique of the first Black woman and person of Asian descent on a major party ticket are part of an aggressive strategy to appeal to white suburban voters.”  — ”President Nancy Pelosi? Don't underestimate what she might do in office,” by The Hill’s Douglas MacKinnon: “Academic exercise or not, Republicans, conservatives and the Trump White House underestimate Pelosi at their own risk. She has proved to be an effective and popular leader for her Democratic colleagues. More than that, she knows every rule and trick in the book.”  CAMPAIGN MODE  PROP. 15 MOVE — “Gavin Newsom backs ‘split roll’ initiative to raise property tax on large businesses,” by the Sac Bee’s Sophia Bollag: “The ballot initiative would not change property tax assessments for homeowners. It’s projected to raise billions of dollars a year in tax revenue for schools and other government services.”  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  GAVINLAND  — ”Newsom signs bill intended to end discrimination against LGBTQ people in sex crime convictions,” by the LA Times’ Phil Willon: “The measure, Senate Bill 145, will amend existing state law that allows judges to decide whether an adult convicted of having vaginal sexual intercourse with a minor should register as a sex offender in cases in which the minor is 14 years or older and the adult is not more than 10 years older than the minor.”  — ”Newsom declines to say if his own children will return to reopening classrooms,” by POLITICO’s Mackenzie Mays.  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  LA LAYOFFS — Garcetti Warns Of Potential Layoffs As City Grapples With Impact Of COVID-19 On Budget,” via CBSLA.  UNSUSTAINABLE BUREAUCRACY — ”San Francisco lets just one person delay eco-friendly projects in the midst of a climate crisis. How is that fair?” by the SF Chronicle's Heather Knight: “If ever there was a wake-up call that we’re in a climate emergency, this is it. All of us must act. Now. And yet in supposedly environmentally conscious San Francisco, we’re fighting over bike lanes and prohibiting through traffic on a tiny percentage of our streets.”  LAW ENFORCEMENT LAWSUIT — “Complex, years-long litigation anticipated in major LAPD protest lawsuit,” by the LA Times’ Kevin Rector: “The activist groups and individuals allege that the LAPD violated protesters’ constitutional rights by arresting them, at times on infractions that only warranted street citations, and then subjecting them to horrible conditions — including leaving them handcuffed on buses for more than 12 hours without access to bathrooms or water.”  ICYMI: “Cleaners Demand Harassment Safeguards From the Booking Service Handy,” by NYT’s Kellen Browning and Kate Conger: “The Public Rights Project, a civil rights nonprofit, is asking California to treat Handy’s workers as employees, which would force the company to step up protection for workers who faced sexual harassment.  “In a complaint filed with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, the Public Rights Project says nearly a dozen cleaners who worked on Handy said they had faced on-the-job harassment but could not get Handy to address it. Instead, they said, Handy often charged them a fee for leaving a job early after being harassed.”  WHY WE’RE WATCHING: PRP, founded by Jill Habig — who also happens to be the spouse of leading Democratic strategist Addisu Demissie — has argued that this exploitation disproportionately affects women of color, who make up the majority of in-home workers.  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  SILICON VALLEYLAND  BIG ONE — “TikTok picks Oracle over Microsoft in Trump-forced sales bid,’’ by AP’s Matt O’Brien and Tali Arbel.  MEN ON MARS? — “Elon Musk plans to send humans to Mars in 2024 as SpaceX genius reveals timeline,” by the U.S. Sun’s Charlotte Edwards  — ”Three Years of Misery Inside Google, the Happiest Company in Tech,” by WIRED’s Nitasha Tiku: “WIRED spoke with 47 current and former Google employees. Most of them requested anonymity. Together, they described a period of growing distrust and disillusionment inside Google that echoed the fury roaring outside the company's walls.”  — ”Facebook launches nationwide poll worker recruitment effort,” by Bay City News’ Eli Walsh.  HOLLYWOODLAND  SICKNESS ON SET — “As Hollywood reopens, COVID-19 liability waivers abound. What are they and should you sign?” by the LA Times’ Anousha Sakoui: “To sign or not to sign is a quandary facing thousands of entertainment industry workers who are eager to go back to work after a months-long shutdown. Some crews have been spooked by the use of such waivers, a reminder of the risks that they are taking going back to work on crowded, busy sets.”  CANNABIS COUNTRY  — “Why Investing in Psychedelic Medicine Could Be Better Than Cannabis,” by Ellen Chang for U.S. News: “Decades of research have demonstrated that psychedelics, which are hallucinogenic drugs, are effective in treating mental disorders such as depression, suicidal thoughts, PTSD and anxiety.”  MIXTAPE  BART IS BACK — ”All BART stations back online after computer issue canceled Sunday morning service,” by the Mercury News’ Aldo Toledo.  HOSTILITY TO HOMELESS — “An L.A. Neighborhood Is in Turmoil After Residents Place Boulders in an Underpass to Deter the Unhoused,” by LA Magazine’s Cerisa Castle.  CROOKED COUGARS — “Inbred Cougars in Southern California Are Sprouting Crooked Tails,” by Gizmodo’s George Dvorsky.  — “Napa County Sheriff Arrests 3 With Stash of Automatic Weapons,” via KPIX.  — “Man arrested on suspicion of sexually assaulting boy using restroom at Riverside park,” by KTLA’s Marissa Wenzke.  — “Chemical spill in Compton area spurs hundreds of complaints of lingering gas-like odors,” by the LA Times’ Tony Barboza.  — “2 Drivers Killed In Fiery Crash In Harbor Gateway,” via CBSLA.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca  Follow Us TRUMP to meet privately with NEWSOM — LA County SHERIFF’S DEPUTIES ambushed — FIRES rage, 22 dead in CA — GYMS, salons open in SF today