All eyes on Mitt Presented by  SEE YOU AT THA CROSSROADS -- At this point, it feels like a matter of when — not if — the Senate GOP will confirm someone to replace late Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.  President Donald Trump hasn’t even named a nominee yet, but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is quickly closing in on the GOP votes to fill the vacancy at some point this year. Three key Republican holdouts — Sens. Cory Gardner of Colorado, Joni Ernst of Iowa and Chuck Grassley of Iowa — all broke their silence yesterday and signaled support for McConnell moving ahead with the confirmation vote.  Now, all eyes are on Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah, who has no loyalty to the president and isn’t up for reelection this year. But he also hails from a religious state and has been a pretty reliable conservative vote for the GOP, other than his vote to convict Trump in the impeachment trial earlier this year. “This is a lot different than impeachment,” cautioned Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.). “I would be very surprised if Romney doesn’t vote for the nominee.”  But keep in mind: Only two GOP senators have come out in opposition to holding a confirmation vote this year, so that means McConnell can afford to lose Romney, with Vice President Mike Pence breaking a tie. And at this point, it’s unclear where a fourth “no” vote would come from. So far, however, Romney is remaining tight-lipped: “I'm not gonna speak about this until I had a chance to speak with my colleagues,” he told reporters. A closer look at Romney’s crossroads from Burgess — who is back from paternity leave just in time for this madness! — and Marianne: https://politi.co/35Xc3rm .  A message from McDonald's: Ron started as a crew member at McDonald’s in Oakland, CA where he found an exciting path. Thanks to college tuition assistance from McDonald’s, Ron became the first college graduate in his family, and today works in Operations at McDonald’s headquarters. Learn how Ron and others succeed at McDonald’s.  MEANWHILE … Trump is pushing the GOP to confirm his Supreme Court nominee before the November election, and a handful of Republicans have echoed similar calls. But yesterday, GOP leaders were not committing themselves to a timeline. During a Monday floor speech, McConnell didn’t specify a date for the vote other than “this year,” while GOP senators emerged from a leadership meeting last night equally non-committal.  Yet Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said on Fox News last night that there’s momentum in the GOP for a quick vote on the yet-to-be-named nominee. "We've got the votes to confirm Justice Ginsburg's replacement before the election, we're going to move forward in the committee, we're going to report the nomination out of the committee to the floor of the United States Senate so we can vote before the election,” he said. Graham also pleaded for more campaign cash— a sign of just how much Republicans are being outraised. Watch.  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), however, made clear he has no qualms about filling the vacancy during the lame-duck session of Congress, which would be even more controversial if Trump loses the White House and could raise questions of legitimacy for Trump’s nominee (whom he is expected to announce Saturday). And holding it in the lame-duck could be risky, since McConnell may be working with a slimmer majority if Democrat Mark Kelly wins a special election against Martha McSally in Arizona. All the latest on the state of play from Andrew, Burgess and Marianne: https://politi.co/33RwaVt .  THE GOP, HOWEVER, is still trying to fend off accusations of hypocrisy from Democrats. And Republicans have made a litany of arguments to justify their moves, including: Democrats would have done the same thing if the roles were reversed … When Barack Obama nominated Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court, the Senate and White House were controlled by different parties … It’s the GOP’s constitutional duty and the reason they won the majority … and Dems essentially brought it upon themselves with their treatment of Brett Kavanaugh.  Democrats, however, point out that in March 2016 — when Garland was nominated — the GOP argued that voters in the upcoming presidential election should have a say in the process. And now we’re even closer to the election, with early voting already underway. During a floor speech, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer argued Republicans “have no right to fill it” and warned that this will “spell the end of the greatest deliberative body.” More from Marianne on the GOP’s SCOTUS defense: https://politi.co/3mBdyBH .  OTHER NOTABLE SCOTUS developments on Capitol Hill yesterday: Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), who voted for Trump’s last two Supreme Court nominees, said he opposes filling the vacancy before the election… Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) feels pretty confident that Judge Amy Coney Barrett, who is on Trump’s SCOTUS shortlist, supports overturning Roe V. Wade … Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), ranking member on the Judiciary Committee, said she doesn’t support packing the courts or ending the filibuster.  Related reads: “Democrats largely powerless to stop GOP from confirming Trump’s court choice,” by WaPo’s Paul Kane and Rachael Bade: https://wapo.st/3cr5ZJ1 ; and “How Ginsburg’s Death Has Reshaped the Money Race for Senate Democrats,” from NYT’s Shane Goldmacher and Jeremy W. Peters: https://nyti.ms/3mHrn1y .  RIP TO RBG -- Ruth Bader Ginsburg will lie in repose at the Supreme Court on Wednesday and Thursday and will lie in state at the Capitol on Friday, becoming the first female to hold the latter distinction (h/t MSNBC’s Kasie Hunt). The Capitol will also hold a formal ceremony for Ginsburg in Statuary Hall on Friday morning, but because of the pandemic, the proceedings “will be open to invited guests only,” per Speaker Nancy Pelosi.  Pelosi’s full statement: “Justice Ginsburg embodied justice, brilliance and goodness, and her passing is an incalculable loss for our democracy and for all who sacrifice and strive to build a better future for our children. Every family in America benefited from her brilliant legacy and courage. Her opinions have unequivocally cemented the precedent that all men and women are created equal.” More from Nick Niedzwiadek: https://politi.co/3mD1P5H .  GOOD MORNING! Welcome to Huddle, the play-by-play guide to all things Capitol Hill, on this September 22, where your host can’t think of a more appropriate cover for John Boehner’s new book than him sipping Merlot next to a lit cigarette in an ashtray .  MONDAY’S MOST CLICKED: The AP’s story on the dual challenges facing Sen. Lindsey Graham was the big winner.  WASHINGTON, DC - NOVEMBER 19: Former House Speaker John Boehner speaks at a ceremony to unveil a portrait in his honor at the U.S. Capitol on November 19, 2019 in Washington, DC. Boehner served as the 53rd Speaker of the United States House of Representatives from 2011 to 2015. (Photo by Alex Edelman/Getty Images) | Alex Edelman/Getty Images  CR-AZY TOWN -- Plans to avoid a government shutdown just hit a speed bump. House Democrats unveiled a continuing resolution (CR) Monday that funds the government until Dec. 11, but it excludes the farm bailout money favored by Trump and the GOP. And Democrats are pressing ahead with a floor vote later today, despite opposition from Republicans.  The GOP-controlled Senate can either tack on the farm funding and send it back to the House, pass the Democrats’ bill as is, or pass their own stopgap measure. But time is running out, with current government funding set to run out at midnight on Sept. 30. We still don’t think there will be a shutdown before the election, but this just injects a little last-minute drama into the whole process. The latest from Caitlin Emma and Bres: https://politi.co/32TXinA .  Related read: “U.S. Stimulus Prospects Darken With Partisan Strains Over Court,” per Bloomberg’s Billy House: https://bloom.bg/32SirhW .  THE MAINE EVENT -- The SCOTUS confirmation battle is poised to roil congressional races up and down the ballot. But that is especially true in Maine, where GOP Sen. Susan Collins was already facing a tough reelection battle after she supported Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Adding to Collins' headaches, election forecasters recently shifted her race from “toss up” to “lean Democratic.”  Here’s a good look at the race from WSJ’s Siobhan Hughes: "Her decision to oppose a pre-election vote on President Trump’s next Supreme Court nominee may not be enough to win over moderate voters, but it risks alienating Maine Republican voters when she needs them most. None of the other 22 Republican senators up for re-election faces as difficult a political moment as Ms. Collins, experts and campaign strategists said, as polls already have shown Ms. Collins consistently behind Democrat Sara Gideon.” More: https://on.wsj.com/2ZXBXYp .  Related read: “Tumultuous court battle upends fight for Senate,” via The Hill’s Jordain Carney: https://bit.ly/32Trwa9 .  YOUNG HUNS -- GOP Sen. Kelly Loeffler, who is on the ballot in Georgia this fall, is out with a wild new campaign ad that paints her as “more conservative than Attila the Hun.” And then it depicts Hun grunting to a translator that he wants to “eliminate the liberal scribes.” Remember: Loeffler and Rep. Doug Collins (R-Ga.) are running in a special election, so it's been a race to the right. Watch the ad here.  Team Collins responds: “Kelly thinks conservatives are grunting, filthy, mass-murdering open borders atheist polygamists. She lives in a seriously warped palace with an odd view of the peasants.”  COVID CONCERNS -- Freshman Rep. Jahana Hayes (D-Conn.) — who contracted coronavirus after voting in the House last week, despite taking every precaution — is raising concerns about the lack of widespread testing in the Capitol. “I just think it’s irresponsible for us not to get regularly tested or have our temperatures taken,” she said. “They’re cleaning the floor between votes, but we did everything — we wore masks, we socially distanced, we didn’t let visitors in the office. I did almost no public events or press conferences.” More from the Middletown Press: https://bit.ly/2G2zzbS .  SWING AND A MISS -- Marjorie Taylor Greene, a controversial GOP House candidate in Georgia who has openly talked about wanting to have a social media following to rival the progressive “squad”, tried to take a swipe at freshman Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) yesterday. Her tweet : “As a blonde woman, I would like to take a moment to thank Congresswoman @AOC. She has single handily put an end to all ‘dumb blonde’ jokes. Blondes everywhere appreciate your service and your sacrifice!”  But AOC, queen of the clapbacks, shot back : “Don’t worry Mrs. Greene, I completely understand why you need to swing + miss at my intellect to make yourself feel better. You seem to have some trouble spelling your own insults correctly. Next time try ‘single-handedly,’ it’ll work better. Good luck writing legislation!”      TRANSITIONS  Dustin Walker, a former aide to the late Sen. John McCain and the Senate Armed Services Committee’s top adviser on Russia, China and North Korea, has joined Anduril Industries’ business development and mission operations teams.  TODAY IN CONGRESS  The Senate meets at 10 a.m. to resume consideration of the nomination of Edward Hulvey Meyers to be a judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. At 11:30 a.m., the Senate will vote on confirmation of the Meyers nomination followed by a vote on a motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Andrea R. Lucas to be a member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. for the weekly party luncheons.  The House gavels in at 9 a.m., with first votes expected between 12 and 2 p.m. Today agenda: https://bit.ly/3iSHpmO .  AROUND THE HILL  House Democratic Caucus Chair Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) and Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Katherine Clark (D-Mass.) hold a news conference at 11:30 a.m. in HVC Studio A.  Reps. Elissa Slotkin (D-Mich.) and Susan Brooks (R-Ind.) hold a news conference on the "Strengthening America's Strategic National Stockpile Act” at 3 p.m. on the House Triangle.  Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) holds a press conference on supporting the airline industry in Covid relief legislation at 4 p.m. on the House Triangle.  TRIVIA  MONDAY’S WINNER: Henry Frisch was the first person to correctly guess that Henry Kissinger was the former Secretary of State and immigrant who served as an Allied interpreter during World War II.  TODAY’S QUESTION: From Henry: There is talk of doing away with the filibuster. Old time filibusters could only be stopped if the senator doing the blocking of bringing a matter to a vote stopped talking or if there was unanimous consent. Who was the first Senator to filibuster? The first person to correctly guess gets a mention in the next edition of Huddle. Send your best guess to [email protected] .  GET HUDDLE emailed to your phone each morning.  A message from McDonald's: Ron always knew he could go places, he just didn’t know where to start. So he applied for a job at McDonald’s, where he found an exciting path and free college tuition assistance. Ron’s drive to succeed and support from his Manager helped make him the first in his family to graduate college. Today, he puts his college degree work as an Operations Associate at McDonald’s headquarters. There are tens of thousands of stories like Ron’s at McDonald’s, where restaurant employees take multiple paths to learn and grow. We offer programs and benefits like Archways to Opportunity®, which has expanded access to education for more than 60,000 crew members and managers while providing more than $125M in tuition assistance. Learn how Ron and others build careers at McDonald’s.  Follow us on Twitter Melanie Zanona @MZanona All eyes on Mitt