TRUMP’s silence on Western wildfires — Did Covid-19 reach LA first? — Hoover fellow, POTUS adviser SCOTT ATLAS under fire — SF to reopen hair, nail salons, gym Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ — CALLING 911: California and the West is on fire. Does the White House know?  It’s been three weeks since President Donald Trump made his last major public reference to California — when he addressed a rally in swing state Pennsylvania. “I see again the forest fires are starting," he said. “I said, ‘you gotta clean your floors, you gotta clean your forests.’ … Maybe we’re just going to have to make them pay for it because they don’t listen to us.”  CNN’s Kevin Liptak reported Thursday that the president has been silent since that statement, which was “a familiar response [blaming] the state's forest management.”  And a Climate Power 2020 analysis has tallied 46 appearances by Trump since an August 23 press conference, “when the president noted that he had approved a disaster declaration for California and spoken with Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom,’’ Common Dreams noted Thursday.  Since then, the state has been slammed with dry lightning that lit hundreds of fires and a heat dome that has sent state residents cowering from broiling, record-high temperatures. The stress on electricity usage has mandated blackouts that have darkened communities of tens of thousands.  More than 3 million acres of the state have been scorched — an area twice the size of Delaware. And as the Sac Bee’s Michael McGough and Tony Bizjak reported, the lightning-sparked August Complex fire now ranks as the largest fire in the state’s recorded history.  Firefighters monitor the Bear Fire burning in Oroville, Calif., on Wednesday, Sept. 9, 2020. | AP Photo/Noah Berger  AND THERE’S THIS: With much of Northern California under the pall of an ungodly orange glow, “rarely have so many Californians been exposed to such gloomy, unhealthy air,” the LA Times’ Susanne Rust and Tony Barboza reported.  Trump has tweeted about everything from Kim Jong Un’s health to an endorsement Thursday for former CAGOP operative Jim Bognet, the ex-deputy campaign manager for Steve Poizner who’s now running for Congress in Pennsylvania. But the last time Trump tweeted about California’s health was August 6.  The deafening silence from the Oval Office hasn’t gone unnoticed.  “The West is on fire. Trump hasn’t bothered mentioning it,’’ read the headline of a piece by Gwynned Stuart in LA Magazine. Stuart noted that, “at the moment, President Donald Trump is attempting to manage the revelation that he intentionally downplayed the Covid-19 pandemic, which has now killed upward of 191,000 Americans. That effort has apparently left little room on his mental plate for the dozens of fires currently ravaging California, Oregon, and Washington.’’  Trump’s silence stands in stark contrast to other public figures, including his Democratic challenger, former Vice President Joe Biden. Biden tweeted yesterday that “the images coming out of California, Oregon, Washington, and other Western states are truly horrifying.”  Trump’s 2016 Democratic challenger, Hillary Clinton tweeted a nightmarish fire photo. “None of this is normal, and confronting climate change is on the ballot this year. Vote, as early as you can, for a habitable planet,” she wrote.  Former President Barack Obama also tweeted photos of California’s orange skies, saying “the fires along the West Coast are just the latest examples of the very real ways our changing climate is changing our communities. Protecting our planet is on the ballot. Vote like your life depends on it—because it does.”  Despite Trump’s silence, as AP’s Aamer Madhani, Kathleen Ronayne and Will Weissert note, climate change will shape the presidential election that’s now just two months away.  “The Biden campaign understands that a full embrace of an aggressive climate change agenda could create problems for them in the Upper Midwest,” said Dan Schnur, who served as an adviser to former California Gov. Pete Wilson and Arizona GOP Sen. John McCain. “Trump has shown no desire to talk about California beyond using it as a liberal punching bag to make his case to his conservative base.”  Stay tuned.  BUENOS DÍAS, good Friday. It’s the anniversary of 9/11. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s words at a press conference yesterday: “Never forget. Never forget. Never forget the tragedy it was, of course, to our nation, that blow, but never forget what it meant to each and every family to lose a loved one.”  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “I am actually done in San Francisco and closing my doors, unfortunately.’’ — San Francisco salon owner Erica Kious, who filmed Pelosi’s infamous unmasked blowout, said she’s closing her salon, reports SacBee’s Summer Lin.  TWEET OF THE DAY: Indicted Rudy Guiliani associate @levparnas: “Take it from me, someone who knows @DevinNunes —he is not fit for office. Vote @PhilArballo2020 on November 3rd, the future of our country depends on it. #LevRemembers #TruthMatters”  BONUS TOTD: Kaiser Health News reporter Angela Hart @Ahartreport: “Meanwhile, chaos continues at EDD. I am tracking a situation w/a unique perspective - a family member has been stuck in the backlog since March 18, when they lost their job due to Covid & filed. We've called thousands of times, sent dozens of messages. Still no help & not a penny.”  WHERE’S GAVIN? #NewsomAtNoon, the governor’s scheduled updates for Covid-19 and fire updates, to be livestreamed via his Twitter, Facebook and YouTube accounts.  TOP TALKERS  IGNORANCE IS BLISS? — “Corporate broadcast TV news fails to make crucial connection between record-breaking California wildfires and climate crisis,” by Allison Fisher in Media Matters: “A Media Matters analysis found that the vast majority of corporate TV news coverage from September 5 through September 8 ignored the relationship between climate change and California’s wildfires. That’s part of a troubling trend, and it comes on the heels of an analysis that found that only 4% of broadcast news wildfire coverage during the month of August mentioned climate change.”  LAPSE IN LEADERSHIP — ”California Assembly’s treatment of Buffy Wicks exposes Anthony Rendon’s dysfunction,” by the Sac Bee’s Gil Duran: “Rendon and his staff clearly didn’t work hard enough. Critical bills dealing with police reform, housing and the environment died on their watch. The clock ran out, dooming key legislation. Was it chaos, cowardice or conspiracy? Depends on who you ask.”  DISNEY DYSFUNCTION — “A pandemic, a motel without power and a potentially terrifying glimpse of Orlando’s future,” by WaPo’s Greg Jaffe: “In tough times, the motels degenerated into shelters of last resort in a city where low-income housing shortages were among the most severe in the nation and the social safety net was collapsing. Now they were fast becoming places where it was possible to glimpse what a complete social and economic collapse might look like in America.”  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  THE LATEST — “Death toll rises as California wildfires continue destructive path,” via the LA Times’ news staff. "The death toll from a massive fire that swept through the mountain communities of Butte, Plumas and Yuba counties has risen to 10, and 16 people remain missing, fire officials said Thursday evening.“  — "Teen missing in North Complex fires is among the dead," by SF Chronicle's Megan Cassidy and Alexei Koseff.  STILL SCARY — “Air quality worsens as orange hue fades from Bay Area skies,” by SF Chronicle’s Michael Cabanatuan: “But while the skies appeared clearer and brighter, the air quality grew far worse, reaching unhealthy and uncomfortable levels by late morning.”  — "‘Fire-breathing dragon of clouds’: Formation over Creek Fire said to be biggest in US history," by SF Chronicle's Nora Mishanec: "It occurs when the scorched air from within a wildfire or volcano meets moist, buoyant air a few miles above the earth. The resulting mass is essentially a rain-less thunderstorm sitting atop a giant fire."  — “Are Gender Reveals Cursed?” by NYT's Taylor Lorenz: “Several parties, meant to mark a milestone in the journey of pregnancy, have resulted in devastation. Is it time to temper the spectacle, or embrace the celebratory spirit?”  RELEASE — “Governor Gavin Newsom Thursday issued an emergency proclamation for the County of Siskiyou due to fires. The fires have burned over 120,000 acres, destroyed homes and other structures, and forced the evacuation of thousands of residents.”  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  — “Placer, Humboldt departures illustrate pressure on California public health officials,” by POLITICO’s Victoria Colliver: “California has lost 10 local health officials since the start of the pandemic — the latest being Placer County's Aimee Sisson this week — in a trend that could have long term consequences for the health of the state. Health and Human Services Secretary Mark Ghaly and Acting State Health Officer Erica Pan on Thursday acknowledged the toll that tensions from the Covid-19 pandemic has taken on these public servants.” (Pro content)  MASKS REQUIRED — “SF to open indoor hair and nail salons, gyms, and hotels next week,’’ by the SF Chronicle’s Rusty Simmons: “Indoor massage businesses, tattoo and piercing services, outdoor family entertainment centers, drive-in movies and outdoor tour buses and boats can also reopen on Sept. 14. Places of worship and political facilities such as campaign offices can open for one person at a time, with up to 50 people allowed outdoors.”  EARLY AGENT — ”The coronavirus may have reached Los Angeles even before China announced its outbreak,” by the LA Times’ Karen Kaplan: “Officials with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention first recognized that the coronavirus had reached American shores in mid-January, when a man in Washington state who had traveled to the area around Wuhan tested positive for an infection. By then, UCLA doctors may have treated dozens of COVID-19 patients without realizing it, the study authors wrote.”  TECH-POWERED TRACING — “Los Angeles County leaders announce new contact tracing app to fight coronavirus,” by The Beach Reporter’s David Rosenfeld: “The app uses built-in Bluetooth to anonymously track individuals and who they might have contacted. When someone is notified, the app tells them where and when they might have been exposed but does not reveal the person who tested positive.”  CAMPUS CONUNDRUM — “College coronavirus testing varies by system, campus,’’ by CalMatters’ Mikhail Zinshteyn, Felicia Mello and Kimberly Morales.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  BIG — “Trump can’t exclude undocumented immigrants from census, judge decides,’’ via The Guardian’s Sam Levine.  HOOVER’S HOLD — ”Former Stanford colleagues warn Dr. Scott Atlas fosters 'falsehoods and misrepresentations of science,'” by ABC’s Lucien Bruggeman and Libby Cathey: “In a ‘Dear Colleagues’ letter penned Wednesday, the Stanford experts wrote that they have a ‘moral and ethical responsibility’ to push back on Atlas' controversial claims about mitigating the spread of the coronavirus, which they characterized as ‘opinions and statements [that] run counter to established science’ and ‘undermine public health authorities and the credible science that guides effective public health policy.’"  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  LA TIMES GOES FOR JOE — “Endorsement: Joe Biden isn’t just ‘anybody but Trump.’ He’s the right fit for our polarized time,” by the LA Times editorial board.  — WHY THAT’S BIG: “Los Angeles Times used to endorse only Republicans for president. What changed?” by the LA Times’ Sewell Chan.  — “Haim Saban backs Biden; will host a fundraiser next week,” by Jewish Insider’s Jacob Kornbluh. And here’s Variety’s Gene Maddaus on Saban’s $500,000 per person event.  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  ‘LONG, PAINFUL RECOVERY’ — “California continues to report high share of jobless as 884,000 file in U.S. for unemployment,’’ by the SF Chronicle’s Carolyn Said: “Claims filed since mid-March now add up to 59.3 million, painting a picture of staggering, ongoing job loss without modern precedent. ‘Those talking about a V-shaped recovery for jobs are off the mark by a vast margin,’ said Enrico Moretti, economics professor at UC Berkeley.  CAN’T SUE FOR SCHOOLS — “California Supreme Court denies attempts to overturn Newsom school closures,” by POLITICO's Mackenzie Mays: “The justices voted to deny the petitions without comment after considering whether the cases "present sufficiently important issues for review,” said Cathal Conneely, spokesperson for the California Supreme Court.” (Pro content)  SKELTON ON CAPITOL CHAOS — “Forget a special legislative session. California lawmakers first need to get their act together,” by the LA Times’ George Skelton: “It was the most discombobulated end of a legislative session — putting it politely — in the memory of everyone I talked to. It certainly was for me, and I’ve covered dozens.”  SILICON VALLEYLAND  TWITTER THE LANDLORD? — ”Twitter seeks subtenants for its SF HQ, as its own employees stay home,” by SF Chronicle’s Roland Li: “It’s another sign of lessening demand for Bay Area office space as health orders keep workers at home for months and companies embrace long-term remote work, particularly in the tech sector.”  HOLLYWOODLAND  — ”USC Annenberg Comprehensive Study Shines Glaring Spotlight On Slow Progress Toward Inclusion In Hollywood,” by Deadline’s Dino-Ray Ramos. The “movies and characters studied in the report aptly titled Inequality in 1,300 Popular Films shows a lack of inclusive representation of those from underrepresented racial/ethnic groups, girls and women, the LGBTQ community, and individuals with disabilities.”  SHOCKING LA STORY — “Gucci Heir Alleges Child Sexual Abuse,” by the NYT’s Vanessa Friedman: “On Tuesday, Alexandra Zarini, the 35-year-old granddaughter of Aldo Gucci, the man responsible for transforming an artisanal leather goods house into a global behemoth, filed suit in the California Superior Court in Los Angeles. In it, she describes years of sexual abuse from her former stepfather, Joseph Ruffalo, and complicity and a cover-up on the part of her mother, Patricia Gucci, and grandmother, Bruna Palombo.”  — ”Kathy Griffin seeks $16 million for Bel-Air mansion,” by the LA Times’ Jack Flemming.  CANNABIS COUNTRY  MARTHA AND MARIJUANA — “Martha Stewart launches CBD line in crowded market,” by CNN’s Alicia Wallace: “Martha Stewart, OG of lifestyle branding, is now the latest celebrity with a CBD line. The hemp-derived, cannabidiol-rich gummies, soft gels and oil drops officially launched on Thursday after more than a year in development.”  MIXTAPE  — “Villanueva: Internal Probe Into Fatal Shooting Of Dijon Kizzee By Deputies Nears End,” by CBSLA staff.  — MONEY ISN’T JUSTICE: “Vallejo’s $5.7 million settlement fails to bring justice, peace or closure,” by the SF Chronicle’s Otis R. Taylor Jr.  — CAUGHT ON CAMERA: Los Angeles CEO caught on security camera mercilessly beating his dog,” by The Daily Mail’s Isolde Walters.  — “Winemakers are worrying about smoke taint, but wine drinkers should not,” by SF Chronicle’s Esther Molbey.  — Release via Riverside DA’s Office: “Palm Desert man arrested and charged in May arson at Republican Women Federated building in La Quinta’’  MEDIA MATTERS  — “The Times is teaming up with other California newsrooms to track COVID-19,” by the LA Times’ Ben Welsh.  BIRTHDAYS  Liz Kennedy, SVP at the Recording Industry Association of America  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].    Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca  Follow Us TRUMP’s silence on Western wildfires — Did Covid-19 reach LA first? — Hoover fellow, POTUS adviser SCOTT ATLAS under fire — HAIM SABAN’s $500K fundraiser for BIDEN — SF to reopen hair, nail salons, gym