POLITICO Playbook PM: Pelosi says W.H. Covid offer stinks Presented by Facebook  Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the Trump administration's Covid relief offer was “one step forward, two steps back.” | J. Scott Applewhite/AP Photo  DRIVING THE DAY  BREAKING … @GovChristie at 9:14 a.m.: “I am happy to let you know that this morning I was released from Morristown Medical Center. I want to thank the extraordinary doctors & nurses who cared for me for the last week. Thanks to my family & friends for their prayers. I will have more to say about all of this next week.”  HERE IS A REMARKABLE FACT: President DONALD TRUMP and Speaker NANCY PELOSI haven’t spoken in nearly one year. Their last one-on-one conversation was Oct. 16, 2019 -- they had a brief interaction at the State of the Union, before PELOSI ripped the president’s speech up. In that time period, the nation has been turned upside down, shaken to the core by an unrelenting virus that has killed more 200,000 and hobbled a once vibrant economy.  BUT THROUGH IT ALL, PELOSI and TRUMP have remained distant, unified only in their distaste for one another.  ALL OF THE SUDDEN, though, their incentives are aligned: they both want a massive Covid deal in an unthinkably quick timeframe. This may happen, it may not, but both sides seem to be rowing toward the same goal at the moment. Washington has never negotiated on a package of this magnitude this late into a presidential election year.  TRUMP is unreadable and unplayable for most Washington observers because he, in fact, has no governing theory. But, in recent days, he has apparently decided that it is in his political interest to spend trillions of dollars.  PELOSI has always wanted a big deal, but she’s hung on negotiating with Washington’s most eager man, STEVEN MNUCHIN. She wanted a deal, and MNUCHIN was her only option. (She has no patience for MARK MEADOWS, and the administration has no one else who knows what they’re doing.)  DESPITE WHAT YOU MAY THINK, a deal isn’t all too close at this moment -- meaning as of early Saturday morning. PELOSI sent a letter to her Democratic colleagues saying that the $1.8 trillion offer from the administration was “one step forward, two steps back.” The letter explains where Pelosi finds fault in the GOP offer. State and local funding is “sadly inadequate,” she said, and the two are still $200 billion off in unemployment insurance. This could be a negotiating tactic, but even if so, these are real issues that need to be solved.  IT’S IN PELOSI’S INTEREST to hold out for every last thing, given how eager the TRUMP administration is for a deal.  PELOSI WANTS THIS TOO. On Thursday, during a private phone call with her leadership team, PELOSI revealed another one of her incentives to getting a deal: she thought it would be better to do it now so she didn’t have to do it early in a BIDEN administration.  OF COURSE, STANDING IN THE WAY will be Senate Republicans, who don’t like the size of the bill, have issues with abortion policy and stimulus checks for undocumented immigrants, to name only a sliver of their gripes.  THE ODD bedfellows of PELOSI and the White House also includes the NYT ED BOARD, which said: “Let’s Make a Deal: The nation needs another round of federal aid. President Trump and Congress need to rise to the moment.  FROM NYT’S EMILY COCHRANE and ALAN RAPPEPORT: “During a campaign forum Friday night, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said he was also in favor of passing another stimulus bill before the election and would be ‘willing to do almost $2 trillion.’ ‘I am excited that Pelosi and Mnuchin are talking again,’ he said. ‘Count me in for another stimulus package.’” WaPo … Sarah Ferris, Marianne Levine and Heather Caygle  NATIONAL FRONTS … NYT (with a big story on last-ditch TRUMP machinations to try to win) … WAPO … WSJ  WHAT AMERICA IS READING … THE NATION’S FRONTS: Charlotte Observer: “Despite his affair, some voters say they are still standing with Cunningham” … Denver Post: “Hickenlooper, Gardner find common ground” … Orlando Sentinel: “Trump coming to Sanford Monday”  10 BYLINES! ... MASSIVE NYT STORY: "The Swamp That Trump Built: A businessman-president transplanted favor-seeking in Washington to his family’s hotels and resorts — and earned millions as a gatekeeper to his own administration," by Nick Confessore, Karen Yourish, Steve Eder, Ben Protess, Maggie Haberman, Grace Ashford, Michael LaForgia, Ken Vogel, Michael Rothfeld and Larry Buchanan  Good Saturday morning. 24 DAYS until Election Day. HE’S BACK … MERIDITH MCGRAW: “Trump launches his post-coronavirus recovery tour”  NYT, A6: “White House Blocked C.D.C. From Requiring Masks on Public Transportation,” by Sheila Kaplan  A message from Facebook: Facebook supports updated internet regulations We support updated internet regulations to set clear rules for today’s toughest challenges and hold companies, including Facebook, accountable for:  — Combating foreign election interference  — Protecting people's privacy  — Enabling safe and easy data portability between platforms  Read more  DEMS ON THE MARCH … REID EPSTEIN, NICK CORASINITI and STEPHANIE SAUL: “Huge Absentee Vote in Key States Favors Democrats So Far”: “Of all the mini-battlegrounds within Wisconsin — perhaps the most pivotal state in November for both President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. — the mother lode of absentee ballots is coming in Dane County, a Democratic stronghold that includes Madison. As of Friday, the number of submitted ballots there amounted to more than 36 percent of the county’s total 2016 election vote, a sign of significant enthusiasm; that figure is 10 percentage points higher than in any other county in the state. …  “The yawning disparities in voting across Wisconsin and several other key battlegrounds so far are among the clearest signs yet this fall that the Democratic embrace of absentee voting is resulting in head starts for the party ahead of Election Day. For Republicans, the voting patterns underscore the huge bet they are placing on high turnout on Nov. 3, even as states like Wisconsin face safety concerns at polling sites given the spikes in coronavirus cases.  POLITICO Playbook newsletter Sign up today to receive the #1-rated newsletter in politics Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or updates from POLITICO and you agree to our privacy policy and terms of service. You can unsubscribe at any time and you can contact us here. This sign-up form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.  MUST READ … N.Y. MAG’S OLIVIA NUZZI: “The Entire Presidency Is a Superspreading Event: Down in the polls, high on steroids, and clinging to good health while endangering everyone else’s”: “Donald Trump was on the phone, and he was talking about dying. It was Saturday, October 3, and while his doctor had told the outside world that the president’s symptoms were nothing to worry about, Trump, cocooned in his suite at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, was telling those close to him something very different. ‘I could be one of the diers,’ he said. …  “Persuading him to leave the White House required an intervention from his doctors, members of the White House operations staff, the Secret Service, and his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner. They had failed to stop the mass deaths of high-risk Americans, but they were going to save Trump, the most important high-risk American of them all. They told him, ‘This isn’t just your choice. This really isn’t about you. It’s about the presidency. Our job is to protect the presidency, and you occupy it.’ They asked him to think about the military and everyone else whose life would be upended if the state of the country’s leadership was in doubt.”  CNN’S MANU RAJU: “Social distancing not common on Senate floor, despite McConnell's claims”  HOLLY OTTERBEIN: “‘Forgotten’ Pennsylvania region holds key to Trump’s fate”: “[President Donald Trump’s] ability to repeat -- or expand on -- his performance in Luzerne County is essential to his hopes of achieving an upset victory in this critical battleground state.  “‘The Luzerne County voter was the definition of the forgotten men and women. Nobody in Washington was standing up for them. They’d lost hope,’ said former GOP Rep. Lou Barletta, a top Trump ally in Pennsylvania who represented a Luzerne-based district. ‘I don’t believe the president lost any support from 2016 here. If anything, he may have even gained more.’ Trump won working-class Luzerne by 26,000 votes in 2016 — nearly 60 percent of his margin of victory in a state that he narrowly carried. As part of his strategy to win Pennsylvania again, his campaign is betting on increased turnout in the small cities and rural reaches of the northeast.”  BLOOMBERG’S JEN JACOBS: “Donald Trump Jr., who self-quarantined after traveling with people who later tested positive for the coronavirus, is planning to take part in 26 campaign events next week on behalf of his father, a person familiar with the matter said on Friday.”  THE PRESIDENT’S SATURDAY -- THE PRESIDENT will speak at 2 p.m. at “a peaceful protest for law & order.”  JOE BIDEN’S SATURDAY -- BIDEN will go to Erie, Pa., to talk about “building back the economy better for working families.”  PLAYBOOK READS  PHOTO DU JOUR: A medical team member is disinfected before leaving the Covid-19 ward at the Severo Ochoa hospital in Leganes, outskirts of Madrid, Spain, on Friday, Oct. 9. | Bernat Armangue/AP Photo  ALWAYS, ALWAYS READ MAUREEN DOWD: “James Murdoch, Rebellious Scion”  DANIEL LIPPMAN: “Trump personnel office weighs asking appointees to offer their resignations”: “The White House Presidential Personnel Office is considering asking nearly every political appointee in the Trump administration to write and tender provisional letters of resignation right before the election, according to two senior administration officials. The personnel office would then decide which ones to accept and which to reject — giving President Donald Trump maximum flexibility in choosing his team in a possible second term.”  CLICKER -- “The nation’s cartoonists on the week in politics,” edited by Matt Wuerker -- 15 funnies  A message from Facebook: It’s time for updated regulations to improve privacy standards We continue to take action to build privacy into our products and give people the tools to help manage their privacy like Privacy Checkup and Off-Facebook Activity. But there’s more to do. We support updated internet regulations to improve privacy standards. Read more  GREAT WEEKEND READS, curated by Margy Slattery and the staff of POLITICO Magazine:  -- “The Store That Called the Cops on George Floyd,” by Aymann Ismail in Slate: “A teenage clerk dialed 911. How should the brothers who own CUP Foods pay for what happened next?” Slate  -- “Japan’s Lost Generation Is Still Jobless and Living With Their Parents,” by Yoshiaki Nohara in Bloomberg Businessweek: “Shut out of the employment market in their 20s, they continue to search for direction in middle age.” Businessweek  -- “The Last Patrol,” by Nathaniel Penn in California Sunday Magazine: “In 2019, President Trump pardoned Army Lieutenant Clint Lorance, who was serving a 20-year sentence for ordering the murder of two Afghan civilians. To Lorance’s defenders, the act was long overdue. To members of his platoon, it was a gross miscarriage of justice.” Cal Sunday  -- “The Inside Story of MacKenzie Scott, the Mysterious 60-Billion-Dollar Woman,” by Stephanie Clifford in Medium’s Marker: “Amazon’s first employee, Jeff Bezos’s ex-wife, and one of the world’s richest women is rewriting the philanthropy playbook.” Marker  -- “Thousands Of D.C. Renters Are Evicted Every Year. Do They All Know To Show Up To Court?” by Josh Kaplan in DCist: “Renters facing eviction in D.C. have more rights than almost anywhere in the country. … But the entire system rests on a pin: the means by which tenants are notified that they need to come to court.” DCist  -- “The Economics of Vending Machines,” by Zachary Crockett in The Hustle: “The pandemic has boosted interest in vending machine ownership. But just how lucrative is the business? We spoke to 20+ operators to find out.” The Hustle  -- “Why Are K-pop Groups So Big?” by Isabella Chua and Elizabeth de Luna in The Pudding: “K-pop groups with 7 or 9, or even 23 members (yes, a group that big exists) might seem alien, or downright excessive. And yet the average size of the top 10 selling K-pop groups of the last decade … is 9 members.” The Pudding  PLAYBOOKERS  Send tips to Eli Okun and Garrett Ross at [email protected].  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK -- Taylor Bush will be White House liaison at DOE. He previously was special adviser at the State Department. ... Jonathan Wetzel will be COS for DOE's Cybersecurity, Energy Security and Emergency Response office. He currently is WH liaison at DOE.  WEDDING -- Dylan Mooers, senior associate at Cornerstone Government Affairs, and Nicole Coletti, associate manager at the Partnership for Public Service, got married Friday in Richboro, Pa. The couple met on move-in day freshman year in 2012 at the University of Maryland, where they lived on the same floor.  WELCOME TO THE WORLD -- Amber Kirby Talley, business development at Amazon and a Jason Chaffetz alum, and Kip Talley, deputy associate administrator for the SBA’s Office of Congressional and Legislative affairs, on Thursday welcomed James Patrick Talley, who joins big sister Charlotte Gray Talley.  BIRTHDAY OF THE DAY: Christina Henderson, legislative assistant for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and D.C. Council candidate. What she’s been reading: “I co-founded an organization called the Black Women’s Congressional Alliance, which is dedicated to empowering black women who work on Capitol Hill, and I lead our book club. We read books written by Black women authors of all genres. Our most recent reads during social distancing were ‘The Vanishing Half’ by Brit Bennett and ‘Party of Two’ by Jasmine Guillory. Given everything happening, our members were looking for something light, non-policy related and these two delivered. I’d recommend both!” Playbook Q&A  BIRTHDAYS: California Gov. Gavin Newsom is 53 … Rep. Donald McEachin (D-Va.) is 59 … Raj Shah, SVP at Fox Corp. … Healy Baumgardner … Brian Nick, VP of comms at Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated, is 45 … Kevin Geary … POLITICO’s Clea Benson, Jason Millman and Laura DiAngelo ... Michael Long, senior adviser and director of member services for Speaker Nancy Pelosi, is 38 … Jason Mida … NYT’s Adam Nagourney … Scott McAdams ... Jim Cullinan … former Sen. Adlai Stevenson III (D-Ill.) is 9-0 … former Rep. Joe Pitts (R-Pa.) is 81 … former Rep. Steve Southerland (R-Fla.) is 55 … Stanley Kay … Dirk Maurer, deputy assistant secretary of Defense for defense continuity and mission assurance … Casey Enders, CEO of the Unlocking Potential Foundation, is 3-0 … Dena Battle … Jessica Powell, senior legislative assistant for Rep. Steve Womack (R-Ark.) …  … Laurence Tribe, Carl M. Loeb professor at Harvard Law School, is 79 … Adnan Mohamed (h/t Omair Mirza) … Matti Friedman, NYT contributing opinion writer, is 43 ... Natalie Montelongo … Christina Harvey, managing director at Stand Up America … Nathaniel Koloc … Algirde Pipikaite … Thad Logan … Deloitte’s Shrupti Shah and Chrissie Del Tatto … Guillermo Meneses … Sam Feinburg … Marty P. Smith … Vincent-Immanuel Herr … Lyft’s Alexandra LaManna … Josh Kuckens … Miriam Roday, research associate at the Institute for Defense Analyses (h/t brother Zack Roday) ... Michael Borden, a partner at Sidley Austin … Tanveer Kathawalla … Spencer Anderson of the State Department ... Tricia Messerschmitt ... James Schuelke … Matt Rohan … Victoria Lee … Stefan Sambol … Caroline Wren is 33 … Seth Levey … Carrie Sarver … Zack Nacheman ... Alessandra Pollare ... Dan O’Meara … Don Burnette ... B.J. Goergen Maloney ... Megan McCafferty ... Victoria Glover ... Lindsay Deloria ... Michael Limperopulos  THE SHOWS (Fuil Sunday show listings here)  NBC “Meet the Press”: Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) … Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) … Bill Gates. Panel: Hugh Hewitt, Hallie Jackson, Maria Teresa Kumar and Jake Sherman.  ABC “This Week”: Eric Trump … Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.) Panel: Rachel Scott, Rahm Emanuel, Julie Pace and Lanhee Chen.  CBS “Face the Nation”: Ronna McDaniel … Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer … Leonard Schleifer … Neel Kashkari … Scott Gottlieb.  FOX “Fox News Sunday”: Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) … Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) … Lara Trump Panel: Brit Hume, Susan Page and Peter Baker. Power Player: Don McGahn.  CNN “State of the Union”: Larry Kudlow … Kate Bedingfield … Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii)  Sinclair “America this Week with Eric Bolling”: Jason Miller … Rudy Giuliani … Michael Knowles … Rob Smith … Bob Unanue.  Gray TV “Full Court Press with Greta van Susteren”: Larry Kudlow … Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.). Panel: Annie Linskey and Kevin Cirilli.  Follow us on Twitter Anna Palmer @apalmerdc    Jake Sherman @JakeSherman Pelosi says W.H. Covid offer stinks