Liddell has met the congressionally mandated deadlines to file two different transition reports in May and August. He is working closely with a career government official who is serving as the federal transition coordinator — typically the type of worker Trump would label as part of the “Deep State.” And the Justice Department has already agreed to start pre-processing Biden officials’ security clearances just in case he wins, according to people familiar with the planning.  “They are very, very focused on implementing the law and doing it by the book, and they are doing a good job,” said David Marchick, director of the nonpartisan Center for Presidential Transition at the Partnership for Public Service.  Instead of on-the-fly decisions, staff infighting or governing by instinct — all hallmarks of Trump’s leadership style over the last four years — transition planning has happened quietly, efficiently and with little public fanfare.  The question is whether Liddell can maintain this level of professionalism if and when Trump starts paying more attention to the prospect of leaving office. Trump’s last transition team under Gov. Chris Christie also ran smoothly and made plans for hiring Cabinet officials and rolling out executive orders — until the Trump team fired Christie days after winning and threw his binders of plans in the trash.  “I suspect the president is totally unaware,” one former Obama transition official said about Trump and the transition plans. “It could go sideways as soon as he knows this is going on.”  A White House official said the president is aware of the transition work of Liddell, who has been at it for months.  “The Trump Administration has met and will continue to meet all requirements under the law as it relates to any needed transition between administrations,” said White House deputy press secretary Judd Deere.  In a political environment already gripped by Trump’s repeated refusal to agree to a peaceful transfer of power, both Democrats and some Republicans feel nervous about the road ahead. Democrats fear Trump could sabotage it by denying Biden aides access to federal agencies, slow-walking security clearances or, more broadly, questioning and undermining the results of the election for several weeks in November and December.  Friends and allies say Liddell is aware of the delicacy of the situation and is purposefully seeking to work under the radar. Liddell declined to comment.  Aiding Liddell in both the planning for a potential transition, or a second Trump term, is top White House attorney Pat Cipollone. Liddell and his team have also been working on a policy agenda for Trump if he wins a second term and are coordinating with the head of presidential personnel, John McEntee, on possible senior personnel picks for both the Cabinet and key White House posts.  National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow, for instance, is not expected to stay on for four more years. And top aides have been eyeing Jim Donovan, a former partner from Goldman Sachs, to either replace Kudlow or take a top Treasury post. Neither Kudlow nor Donovan responded to requests for comment.  The White House handed Liddell the transition portfolio because of his past work on the transition team for 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney. During that period, Liddell served as the executive director of the roughly 600-person Romney transition team and made sure the operation, which functioned more like a consulting firm, met its deadlines, with timelines and deliverables.  “He knows how to run the machinery,” said Tim Adams, a former Romney transition official and a former top Treasury official. “Hopefully, they are leaving him alone and letting him do this job.” Trump’s team plots his departure — even if he won’t