Tech braces for debate night Presented by Masterworks  With help from Cristiano Lima, Leah Nylen, John Hendel and Mark Scott  Editor’s Note: Morning Tech is a free version of POLITICO Pro Technology's morning newsletter, which is delivered to our subscribers each morning at 6 a.m. The POLITICO Pro platform combines the news you need with tools you can use to take action on the day’s biggest stories. Act on the news with POLITICO Pro.  Quick Fix  — The great debate, part I: All hands on deck as social media platforms prep for tonight’s face-off between President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden — a test case for the online challenges tech companies might see between now and November.  — 230 proposal gets bipartisan momentum: Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin’s bill targeting Section 230 — a much-anticipated measure slated to be introduced today — now has a prominent Republican co-sponsor.  — The trouble with Zoom hearings: Monday’s Apple and Epic Games hearing over Zoom, and a recent virtual hearing on the WeChat ban, are raising fresh questions about public and press access to happenings in the courts.  GREETINGS, TECHLINGS: IT’S TUESDAY. WELCOME TO MORNING TECH! I’m your host, Alexandra Levine.  Got a news tip? Write to Alexandra at [email protected], or follow along @Ali_Lev and @alexandra.levine. An event for our calendar? Send details to [email protected]. Anything else? Full team info below. And don't forget: Add @MorningTech and @PoliticoPro on Twitter.  A message from Masterworks: You don’t have to take big risks to make big returns. Take it from us, day trading doesn’t work—boost your portfolio stability with art, one of the oldest and largest uncorrelated assets. For the first time ever, Masterworks makes it possible for anyone to invest in iconic works of art by the likes of Banksy, Kaws, Basquiat (and more) at a starting point everyone can afford. Skip the waitlist here.  Tech of the Town  TONIGHT’S THE NIGHT — The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and former veep Joe Biden is set for 9 p.m. ET, and social media platforms are already bracing for potential problems. Twitter, for example, stressed Monday that it’ll be using a combination of human monitoring and automation to keep a close watch on trending content, hashtags and accounts that might violate site policies and to offer users accurate voter registration resources and authoritative information as context for inaccuracies from the candidates. (Monday’s MT looked at what tech talk could come up; read that here, ICYMI.)  TODAY: CORNYN TEAMS UP WITH MANCHIN ON SECTION 230 REFORM BILL — Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) today is slated to introduce his long-awaited bill to revamp Section 230 with a key Republican co-sponsor in tow: Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, according to Manchin’s office.  — Cornyn, long seen as a leading contender to succeed Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell as the chamber’s top Republican, gives Manchin a powerful new ally in his push to change the liability shield, which has come under fire from both parties.  — The skinny on the proposal: Manchin’s bill, as Cristiano first reported Friday, would require companies to report to federal authorities suspicious activity by users linked to major crimes or risk losing their Section 230 protections, which shields them from lawsuits for hosting third-party content and for taking steps to combat noxious material. It’s now the third bipartisan Senate bill to revamp Section 230 introduced this Congress, joining the PACT Act, S. 4066 (116), and the EARN It Act, S. 3398 (116). All three now have the backing of a member of Senate leadership or of a committee chairman, making each a legit threat to Section 230.  — Not a fan? The tech industry: The Internet Association — a leading tech trade association that counts Amazon, Google and Facebook as members — is already voicing concern. “The bill would put online services into the impossible position of determining what is or isn’t evidence of a crime, with crippling liability for failing to make the correct determination,” IA Deputy General Counsel Elizabeth Banker said in a statement.  ALSO TODAY: HOUSE TO VOTE ON EMERGING TECH BILLS — A number of tech and telecom bills are set to get consideration on the House floor today, with passage likely. They include: Rep. Jerry McNerney’s (D-Calif.) Consumer Safety Technology Act, H.R. 8128 (116), which would direct the Consumer Product Safety Commission to use artificial intelligence to identify consumer product-related injuries; Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ (R-Wash.) American COMPETE Act, H.R. 8132 (116), which aims to boost U.S. innovation in emerging technologies like AI and blockchain; and H.R. 1289 (116), which would prevent consumers’ phone numbers from getting reassigned in the wake of disasters.  The U.S. Capitol is seen in Washington, D.C. | Samuel Corum/Getty Images  — And amid renewed talks, House Democrats floated a slimmed-down version of their coronavirus relief package, which still spends billions of dollars for broadband connectivity.  THE PERILS OF ZOOM HEARINGS — On the plus side, federal court hearings held via Zoom mean you can wear sweatpants. On the downside, so can everyone else. Monday’s Apple and Epic Games hearing drew a crowd — the Northern District of California reached its 500-person cap on Zoom more than 45 minutes beforehand, leaving many tech and court reporters (including POLITICO’s) without access. Intense public interest in the WeChat ban had a similar result: a Sept. 17 hearing in the same court with a 100-person limit filled up so quickly, the court increased the capacity to 500 for a follow-up hearing the next day (that one also maxed out).  — Livestreams: The court forbids any recording of hearings, and a notice on the California court’s website specifically calls out taking screen-shots or any other form of audio or visual copying. But a few gamers took the risk anyway, streaming the court proceedings on Twitch and YouTube for others to watch. At various points during the hearing, more than 1,600 people were watching those offshoot livestreams.  — Cameras in the court: The CARES Act authorized the federal courts to conduct business via teleconference and offered $6.5 million in additional funding. In April, the Judiciary asked Congress for $36.5 million more to help with additional health screening and technology enhancements during the pandemic. (Some in Congress have long pushed for the judicial branch to offer televised hearings. While few U.S. federal courts offer video, the U.S. Supreme Court and several of the appeals courts provide audio of arguments.)  BROADBAND LAND: TRUMP ADMIN TO BOOST 5G WORKFORCE TRAINING — The Department of Labor explicitly named 5G wireless network building as a goal when recently designating the Wireless Infrastructure Association as an industry intermediary to help train wireless workers — something that the association has long clamored for amid plans to spend millions of dollars on the effort. “We need to put the 5G job skills effort on steroids, and this is a nice big pill,” Jonathan Adelstetin, the group’s president, told John on Monday.  — Adelstein expects labor demand will remain high and as necessary as ever given the wireless industry's recent interest in complex new network architecture ideas like opening the radio access networks (“open RAN”). “There’s going to be a crunch,” Adelstein maintained, pointing to the wireless carriers “firing a once,” the entry of new 5G player Dish Network, and builds related to the FCC’s recent auction of Citizens Broadband Radio Service airwaves.  — One lobbying fight to watch: Adelstein said that if Congress moves on a broadband infrastructure package, lawmakers should include legislation aimed at training more 5G network builders.  THE VIEW FROM EUROPE: SCHREMS II, PRIVACY SHIELD FALLOUT — With Ireland's privacy agency at the finish line of likely deciding to forbid Facebook from using so-called “standard contractual clauses” to move data from the European Union to the United States, Max Schrems and his nonprofit organization, NOYB, asked dozens of other companies how they planned to keep the transatlantic data taps on.  — Their responses: Almost everyone (from Apple and Microsoft to Google and Facebook) said they would continue to use contractual clauses until told otherwise, adding that they were seeking guidance from EU regulators on how best to proceed. "It seems so far too many EU companies point at the regulators and the regulators point at them to get going," Schrems told Morning Tech. "At the same time, the U.S. data importers spread the message that there would be no problem."  — Not a problem… until there is one: Much will depend on Dublin's decision on how to handle Facebook's use of its own contractual clauses. If — which seems likely — the agency says such transfers are illegal, expect the legal mechanisms of other companies based in Ireland and across Europe to come under that same scrutiny. So at some point, those companies, too, could find themselves with little (if any) option to move information from the EU to the U.S.  — Next up on the calendar: Facebook's judicial review case on Dublin's likely ruling against the company's standard contractual clauses is set for December 15. The court hearing will last up to four days; a judge's decision is expected in early January.  A message from Masterworks:  Transitions  Tracey Breeden, former head of women’s safety and gender-based violence operations at Uber, is joining Match Group as its new head of safety and social advocacy. … Rinki Sethi, who has worked at Rubrik, IBM and Palo Alto Networks, has joined Twitter as its new CISO. … Michael Dugan, former chief technology officer at Hearst Magazines, was appointed chief technology officer for the digital publisher G/O Media. … Vilas Dhar was named the first president of the Patrick McGovern Foundation. … Marcin Cichy was appointed Access Partnership’s senior advisor for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  Silicon Valley Must Reads  Inside Russia’s state-media propaganda machine: “Russia's state media actively promoted Brexit supporters and undermined Hillary Clinton's 2016 U.S. presidential bid as part of a yearslong campaign to sow doubt among Western democracies, according to almost two dozen current and former journalists for RT, the Kremlin-backed outlet,” POLITICO reports.  TikTok decision: “The Trump administration ‘likely’ exceeded its legal authority with its order to ban TikTok downloads in the U.S. and impose other restrictions on the video-sharing platform, a federal judge wrote in a legal opinion disclosed Monday,” per Cristiano.  A message from Masterworks: History shows adding blue-chip art can boost portfolio stability. Data from Citi’s Global Art Market Report 2019 finds art to be one of the least volatile asset classes, sharing a correlation factor of just 0.13 to public equities. Beyond that, contemporary art has outperformed the S&P by over 180% from 2000–2018, according to industry benchmarks. Although investing in art has been around for centuries (Sotheby’s was once the oldest company listed on the NYSE) only the ultra-wealthy have been able to participate. Modern investing platforms like Masterworks are finally democratizing the $1.7 trillion art market by giving anyone access at a starting point everyone can afford. Skip the 25,000+ waitlist by signing up today.  Quick Downloads  Palantir problems: As Palantir’s listing hits the New York Stock Exchange, Amnesty International is criticizing the data analytics company for “failing to do right” when it comes to human rights — particularly related to immigration issues.  ICYMI: Tesla CEO Elon Musk sat down with NYT Opinion’s Kara Swisher on her new podcast. Listen here.  Tips, comments, suggestions? Send them along via email to our team: Bob King ([email protected], @bkingdc), Heidi Vogt ([email protected], @HeidiVogt), Nancy Scola ([email protected], @nancyscola), Steven Overly ([email protected], @stevenoverly), John Hendel ([email protected], @JohnHendel), Cristiano Lima ([email protected], @viaCristiano), Alexandra S. Levine ([email protected], @Ali_Lev), and Leah Nylen ([email protected], @leah_nylen).  TTYL.  Follow us on Twitter Heidi Vogt @HeidiVogt    Alexandra S. Levine @ali_lev    John Hendel @johnhendel    Cristiano Lima @viacristiano    Leah Nylen @leah_nylen    Steven Overly @stevenoverly    Nancy Scola @nancyscola Tech braces for debate night - Politico