Barrett’s record on the court  Editor’s Note: Weekly Shift is a weekly version of POLITICO Pro’s daily Employment & Immigration policy newsletter, Morning Shift. POLITICO Pro is a policy intelligence platform that combines the news you need with tools you can use to take action on the day’s biggest stories. Act on the news with POLITICO Pro.  Quick Fix  President Donald Trump formally announced on Saturday that he has tapped Judge Amy Coney Barrett to succeed the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court.  Barrett, who has served on Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals since 2017, is expected to be confirmed by the GOP-controlled Senate in the coming weeks. Democrats are planning on throwing a few wrenches into the process, as our Andrew Desiderio reports, but the delay tactics won’t prevent Barrett from being sworn in. Her confirmation hearing, which will last three to four days, will begin Oct. 12, setting the stage for a possible floor vote before Election Day.  Judge Amy Coney Barrett listens as President Donald Trump announces Barrett as his nominee to the Supreme Court, Saturday, Sept. 26, 2020, in Washington. | AP Photo/Alex Brandon  Barrett has already ruled on Trump’s immigration policies during her time on the appeals court. In June, she was the lone judge to dissent in a decision blocking Trump’s public charge rule, which was written to make it harder for immigrants who rely on Medicaid, food stamps and other programs to get green cards and visas. On Sept. 11, another appeals court issued a decision that cleared the Trump administration to implement the rule nationwide.  In 2017, Barrett voted against a request for a rehearing in the discrimination case EEOC v. AutoZone, joining four other judges in denying the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s request for the full court to reconsider the case, in which the EEOC alleged the auto parts store was segregating its employees by race.  She also joined in a 2019 ruling that said the 1967 Age Discrimination in Employment Act only covers current employees, not job applicants. The Supreme Court last year declined to take up the case, leaving the 7th Circuit’s ruling in place. More on Barrett from our Josh Gerstein.  AND: “How Amy Coney Barrett Would Reshape the Court — And the Country,” from POLITICO Magazine  GOOD MORNING. It’s Monday, Sept. 28, and this is Morning Shift, your tipsheet on employment and immigration news. If you’re a health care worker, we want to know what you’re hearing and seeing on the front lines of the pandemic. Share your perspective here. And send tips, exclusives and suggestions to [email protected] and [email protected]. Follow us on Twitter at @Eleanor_Mueller and @RebeccaARainey.  DRIVING THE WEEK  NO FORGIVENESS: The $525 billion Paycheck Protection Program, created in March, distributed rescue loans to small businesses, which it stipulated could be forgiven if employers maintained payroll. But “lenders that helped the government deliver the money are warning that the effort is running into new delays and complications that could leave struggling employers on the hook with unanticipated debt,” our Zachary Warmbodt reports.  Banks have been submitting applications for loan forgiveness to the Small Business Administration since Aug. 10, “but the lenders say the agency has been silent on whether any of the applications will be accepted,” Zach writes. The SBA said Thursday it has received 96,000 forgiveness applications — representing fewer than 2 percent of the total loans — but has not approved or denied any of them.  WHAT’S THE HOLDUP? Banks say they have gotten conflicting information from various SBA officials, according to Zach. “Another concern that has surprised borrowers as well as some lenders is a requirement that the proceeds from a separate SBA disaster aid program must be deducted from the amount of the payroll loan that can be forgiven. That means many businesses will likely be left with money to pay back to their bank.”  Immigration  DHS PROPOSES LIMITS ON STUDENT VISAS: The Department of Homeland Security is proposing putting two- and four-year limits on visas for international students, who are currently allowed to stay in the U.S. for as long as it takes to complete their programs, our Eleanor Mueller reports. The Trump administration argues the existing system has "undermined" its ability to crack down on students’ "unlawful presence" and has "created incentives for fraud and abuse.”  How it would work: “The time limit would depend on a student's country of origin,” Eleanor writes. “Most would get four years. But a two-year limit would be imposed on those hailing from countries with visa overstay rates of more than 10 percent, including several dozen nations located mostly in Africa and the Middle East. A two-year limit would also apply to students from countries the U.S. considers state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran, North Korea, Syria or Sudan.”  What now: The public has 30 days to comment on the proposed changes, and immigration advocates are already criticizing the proposal.  On the Hill  BANKRUPTCY BILL MARKUP THIS WEEK: The House Judiciary Committee on Tuesday afternoon will mark up a bill that seeks to strengthen protections for workers during business bankruptcies. The bill, dubbed the “Protecting Employees and Retirees in Business Bankruptcies Act of 2020,” would make changes to the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, including tweaks that would make it harder for employers to cut retirement benefits or reject collective bargaining agreements during bankruptcy. A press release on the bill. More on the markup.  In the Workplace  ALPHABET SETTLES WITH SHAREHOLDERS OVER HARASSMENT: Google’s parent company, Alphabet, announced on Friday that it has settled a shareholder lawsuit over its handling of sexual harassment allegation against its executives.  REFRESHER: In January 2019, Google shareholders filed a lawsuit against Alphabet, alleging that the tech giant had violated its fiduciary duties when it shielded and approved large payouts to former executives that had credible sexual harassment allegations against them. Alphabet’s “wrongful conduct allowed the illegal conduct to proliferate and continue,” the suit argued.  WHAT NOW? “Execs will not be able to receive severance or amend their stock sale plans while they are while they are subject to investigations or a lawsuit for sexual misconduct,” CNBC’s Jennifer Elias reports. “The settlement also eliminates mandatory arbitration and limits Google’s use of non-disclosure agreements for employees involved in these cases.” Google has also agreed to spend $310 million “to fund and create a diversity, equity and inclusion advisory council comprised of outside experts,” Elias adds.  More on the tech-giant’s commitments in a post from Google’s head of people operations, Eileen Naughton.  MORE HAZARD PAY AT STOP & SHOP: Grocery chain Stop & Shop will be extending its Covid-19 pay boost for 56,000 unionized employees represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers, after initially ending the increase in July. The new agreement, announced by the UFCW on Friday, will give workers retroactive premium pay for hours worked this summer — 10 percent of all their hours from July 5 to August 22.  In the States  PANDEMIC PUSHES CALIFORNIANS DOWN THE LADDER: “Although early government programs might have delayed the hit to California’s already-shrinking middle class, many skilled workers are now downgrading and taking lower wage, essential jobs on the front lines of the pandemic,” Laurence Du Sault reports for The Bay Area News Group.  “There’s so many overqualified people who’ve lost their jobs applying,” said Debra Feleke, the hiring manager for a Safeway district that includes 21 stores in the San Francisco Bay Area, according to Du Sault. “I’ve had people with doctorates and masters. It’s really quite astounding.”  Economists expect businesses to reopen and employment to rise when more Bay Area counties lift Covid-19 restrictions, Du Sault writes. “But thousands of jobs simply won’t come back. Hardest-hit by early pandemic closures were low-wage workers in the service and retail industries, but as those sectors start rehiring, others are expected to face long-lasting cuts, including DJs, waiters, airport staff, event planners and tour guides.”  Coming up this week  ON WEDNESDAY: The House Small Business Committee will hold a hearing at 10 a.m. to discuss how COVID-19 is impacting small businesses across the food system. 2175 Rayburn.  ON THURSDAY: The House Small Business oversight subcommittee will hold a hearing at 10 a.m. on preventing fraud and abuse of PPP and Economic Injury Disaster Loans. Mike Ware, inspector general at the Small Business Administration, will testify. 2360 Rayburn.  ON SUNDAY: Advocacy groups will host a National COVID-19 Remembrance event on the Ellipse in Washington, D.C. to honor the more than 200,000 Americans who have died from Covid-19.  What We're Reading  — “Big companies are swallowing up smaller ones. Why that's not good for the economy,” from The Los Angeles Times  — “Trump’s ban on diversity training sends tech companies scrambling,” from Protocol  —“Few in U.S. owned stocks outside of 401(k)s in 2019, fewer said market had a big impact on their view of economy,” from Pew Research Center  — “Mass layoffs and smaller airlines loom after COVID-19, even with more aid,” from Yahoo Finance  — ICYMI: “Judge says 2020 census must continue for another month,” from POLITICO  — “COVID-19 pandemic has cut into side jobs too,” from The Los Angeles Times  — “Small investors have pushed big companies toward social change. A new SEC rule will limit their influence,” from The Washington Post  THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT!  Follow us on Twitter Rebecca Rainey @rebeccaarainey Barrett’s record on the court