RBG’s death rocks CA politics, KAMALA in spotlight — EDD reset — NEWSOM signs UNDOCUMENTED tax benefit — ROHRABACHER-ASSANGE offer corroborated Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ — Dismay and then determination cascaded over California Democrats Friday night as they processed the death that could reshape both this election and generations of policy. The earthquake that hit Los Angeles hours later felt like divine punctuation.  There were glowing tributes to Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s towering legacy.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi: “Every woman and girl, and therefore every family, in America has benefited from her brilliance.”  Rep. Katie Porter: “I’m thinking today about Justice Ginsburg’s remark that there will be enough women on the Supreme Court when there are nine.”  Rep. Jackie Speier: “We have lost an American Icon of untold proportions, a feminist with the steeliest spine, and a jurist of remarkable talent, legal precision, and a yearning for justice for all.”  Gov. Gavin Newsom: “Our hearts ache tonight. Let us honor her memory by preserving the very ideals she fought so tirelessly for.”  Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi arrives to pay her respects at the makeshift memorial for Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg in front of the Supreme Court on September 20, 2020. | Samuel Corum/Getty Images  Even California Republicans praised her fortitude. But other, more visceral reactions of the “NOOOOO” variety underscored the enormous political repercussions. We saw more than a few calls for Democrats to pack the court if they reclaim Congress.  And plenty of Democrats framed this as a call to action: “We must pick up the pieces and pick up the fight,” urged former Sen. Barbara Boxer. “Cry. Scream. Have a meltdown. Then get into warrior mode,” advised Planned Parenthood’s Jodi Hicks.  At stake long-term are a suite of policies cherished by California Democrats, preeminently Obamacare — which state Attorney General Xavier Becerra is fighting to preserve in court. Rep. Adam Schiff said on Sunday that “our health is on the ballot,” echoing a top-down party focus on that issue.  But the ripples are far wider. California voters could reinstate affirmative action in November by passing Proposition 16; a solidly conservative court could invalidate such diversity-boosting measures. Gun control, abortion rights — the list goes on. “HEY 2020, WE DON’T NEED A REMINDER HOW HIGH THE STAKES ARE,” Newsom administration official Jason Elliott wrote.  KAMALA’S ROLE: Perhaps more than any California politician, Sen. Kamala Harris will be in the thick of what comes next. She’ll be hammering the SCOTUS vacancy as a presidential ticket member.  “The stakes of this election couldn’t be higher,” she said on Twitter. “Millions of Americans are counting on us to win and protect the Supreme Court—for their health, for their families, and for their rights.” The Biden-Harris ticket shattered fundraising records in the hours after Ginsburg’s death was announced. “Today,” announced a Harris fundraising email, “we fight for her legacy.”  And as you may remember, Harris sits on a certain committee with jurisdiction over court appointments. Her prosecutorial grilling of Senate Judiciary witnesses vaulted her into the national consciousness, playing no small role in her presidential prevalence — and so it’s something of a full-circle moment that a fight redefining the presidential race will put Harris in the brightest Senate spotlight. She’ll be joined by Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who cited Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s infamous blocking of nominee Merrick Garland in saying, “Under no circumstances should the Senate consider a replacement for Justice Ginsburg until after the presidential inauguration.”  Newsom doesn’t get a vote, but he was excoriating Republicans on that point: “Mitch McConnell. 2016. Never forget,” he tweeted, citing the Garland incident. He quoted Sen. Ted Cruz and Sen. Lindsey Graham as having staked out similar positions, telling his followers that this is “the only time in my life I have ever recommend[ed] that we do what Lindsey Graham says: USE HIS WORDS AGAINST HIM.” And a Newsom fundraising missive urged donors to channel money to Senate Democrats: “The most important thing we can do right now is to elect a Democratic Senate Majority that will appoint a Supreme Court Justice who believes in equality and the rule of law.”  BUENOS DÍAS, good Monday morning. Former Gov. Jerry Brown is buoying the Biden-Harris campaign today, joining a climate roundtable hosted by the Nevada State Democratic Party that will focus on how a Biden administration would differ on climate from the Trump administration.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “There cannot be one set of rules for a Republican President and one set for a Democratic President, and considering a nominee before the next inauguration would be wholly inappropriate. We urge you to adhere to your own words and commit publicly that you will not consider any nominee to fill Justice Ginsburg’s seat until after the next President is inaugurated.” Senate Judiciary Democrats, led by Feinstein, make their plea in a letter to Senate Judiciary Chair Graham.  TWEET OF THE DAY: Newsom chief of staff @Ann_OLeary posts an impassioned RBG thread: “While I am not radical, I am ready to fly to DC in the middle of COVID19 and lay my body on the floor of the United States Senate to prevent a vote from occurring before the next term of Congress.”  BONUS TOTD: WSJ reporter Christine Mai-Duc @cmaiduc: “Welp I just screamed ‘2020 IS THE WORST YEAR EVER’ and my husband had to remind me our daughters were, in fact, born this year”  WHERE’S GAVIN? #NewsomAtNoon — Gov. Gavin Newsom will provide an update on the state’s response to the wildfires and Covid-19 pandemic. The update will be streamed at the @CAgovernor Twitter page and California Governor Facebook page.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  — ”U.S. Admits That Congressman Offered Pardon to Assange If He Covered Up Russia Links,” by the Daily Beast’s Jamie Ross: “[Lawyer Jennifer] Robinson said the two Americans claimed to be emissaries from Washington and ‘wanted us to believe they were acting on behalf of the president.’ The pair allegedly told Assange that they could help grant him a pardon in exchange for him revealing information about the source of the WikiLeaks information that proved it was not the Russians who hacked Democratic emails.”  SF INVESTMENT — “How Everyone From Foreign Governments to Federal Contractors is Quietly Lining Trump’s Pockets,” by Vanity Fair’s Dan Alexander: “Why would anyone, much less an entity that serves as an arm of the Qatari government, bother outfitting an empty office space in an expensive San Francisco skyscraper? Consider who owns the building. The lobby features signs for Vornado Realty Trust, the publicly traded firm, with innumerable shareholders, that has a 70% stake in the tower. The other 30% belongs to a single man: Donald J. Trump, the president of the United States.”  — ”Graduate student who claimed to be Black loses faculty job offer at Fresno State,” by the LA Times’ Nina Agrawal.  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  GETTING WORSE — "California fire activity ‘slowly picking up again,’ air quality worsens," by the SF Chronicle's Shwanika Narayan.  — ”Damage from wildfires’ toxic air lingers long after the smoke clears,” by the LA Times’ Katheryn Houghton: “So far, researchers have seen that people’s lung capacity declined in the first two years after the smoke cleared.”  — ”Firefighter killed battling wildfire, bringing California death toll to 26,” by the LA Times’ Hayley Smith and Rong-Gong Lin.  — "Ignoring fire evacuation orders is rampant in California. That perilous choice endangers others, officials say," by the SF Chronicle's Peter Fimrite.  — ”Wildfires and hurricanes disrupt final weeks of 2020 census,” by the AP’s Mike Schneider: “The fires on the West Coast forced tens of thousands of people to flee homes in California and Oregon before they could be counted, and tens of thousands of others were uncounted in Louisiana communities hit hard last month by Hurricane Laura.”  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  LITTLE LOSSES — “Where are all the kindergartners? Pandemic creates rare gap year,” by POLITICO’s Mackenzie Mays: “Parents across the nation are skipping kindergarten in droves during the most tumultuous school year in generations. Frustrated by the thought of sticking their 5-year-olds in front of screens during the pivotal first year of school, they are sending their children to extended preschool, forming learning pods or foregoing formal instruction altogether.”  — “‘Tsunami’ of hotel closures is coming, experts warn,” by the LA Times’ Hugo Martín.  — ”Indoor dining might resume by month’s end in SF. Will it be enough to save struggling restaurants?” by the SF Chronicle’s Michael Cabanatuan, Nora Mishanec and Janelle Bitker.  — "‘We shouldn’t be shut out of church’: Large Catholic demonstration in S.F. demands reopening," by the SF Chronicle's Rusty Simmons.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  — “Pelosi: No one has ‘any interest’ in government shutdown,” by POLITICO’s Aubree Eliza Weaver: “With just weeks until government funding runs out, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi reiterated Sunday morning that she has no interest in allowing the government to shut down — not even as a bargaining chip in slowing down President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nomination.”  TIKTOK BAN — “What Commerce’s WeChat-TikTok announcement really means,” by Protocol’s Issie Lapowsky: “The Commerce Department's notice clarifies those orders, specifying that WeChat will also be prohibited from using U.S. internet hosting or content delivery network services beginning Sunday. TikTok will be barred from doing so starting Nov. 12.”  — "Trump dismisses climate change role in fires, says Newsom needs to manage forest better," by the Hill's John Bowden.  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  TRUMP ON KAMALA — “Trump says a Harris vice presidency is ‘no way for a woman’ to become president,” by POLITICO’s Matthew Choi: “‘And if a woman is going to become the first president of the United States, it can’t be her. That would rip our country apart.’”  — “Alphabet chairman among tech execs endorsing Joe Biden, citing immigration policies,” by CNBC’s Jennifer Elias.  — "Biden Likely to Tap Kamala Harris to Prosecute Trump Court Pick," by Bloomberg's Jeffrey Taylor and Tyler Pager.  CAMPAIGN MODE  LA TIMES ON SPLIT ROLL — “Yes on Proposition 15. It’s one small step toward fixing California’s broken tax system,” via the LA Times editorial board.  — “California Republicans are stuck with an unpopular Trump. Can they create distance?” by the SF Chronicle’s John Wildermuth: “In a state where Trump is wildly unpopular, Valadao and other GOP congressional candidates are being forced to try not to alienate the president and party faithful who view any disagreement as disloyalty, while still appealing to host of never-Trumpers whose votes they need.”  COX CLASH — “California Democrat says political attack ads accusing him of unpaid taxes 'are lies',” by the Washington Examiner’s Kerry Picket.  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  GAVINLAND  IMMIGRANT AID — “Newsom signs law to give more undocumented Californians a tax break worth hundreds of dollars,” by the Sac Bee’s Kim Bojórquez.  — ”Newsom held back from attacking Trump directly on climate change. Here’s why,” by the SF Chronicle’s Alexei Kossef: “That toned-down message reflects the delicate approach the governor has crafted for dealing with Trump, a political rival who also approves — or can block — spending for emergency firefighting resources and recovery aid the state needs.”  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  EDD ISSUES — “California's embattled UI agency will take 2-week 'reset,' won't resolve backlog until January,” by POLITICO’s Katy Murphy: “The report underscores just how outdated the agency's systems and processes are; one recommendation is to allow people to upload documents from their computers or phones when further documentation or clarification is required, rather than by regular mail.”  — “California job growth is sluggish — and experts say it may get worse,” by the LA Times’ Margot Roosevelt: “California’s job market improved slightly in August, but the state has regained just a third of the jobs it lost since the COVID-19 pandemic forced thousands of businesses to close.”  SANTA CLARA SCANDAL — “How a really big check unraveled a well-oiled patronage system with Santa Clara County concealed-gun permits,” by the East Bay Times’ Robert Salonga: “With prosecution getting underway for adviser and longtime political backer of Sheriff Laurie Smith, grand jury transcripts hint that corruption probe poses biggest political threat yet to sheriff’s two-decade tenure.”  — ”SF census workers say they were told the counting was done. But the city tally is far from complete,” by the SF Chronicle’s Heather Knight: “Months of delays because of the COVID-19 pandemic, a chaotic, slipshod training in early August, a short time of poorly organized counting and then an abrupt cutoff of their work.”  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — ”The new startup pitch: We’re not Uber,” by the SF Chronicle’s Carolyn Said.  HOLLYWOODLAND  — VIRTUAL SUCCESS: "The first ever virtual Emmys were the perfect awards for our times," by the LA Times' Meridith Blake.  — ”E! hosts skip the Emmys red carpet after testing positive for COVID-19,” by the LA Times’ Christi Carras.  KAMALA CRED — “Maya Rudolph scores Guest Actress in a Comedy Emmy for turn as Kamala Harris on SNL,” by Entertainment Weekly’s Tyler Aquilina.  — ”Disgraced mogul Harvey Weinstein stripped of UK honor,” via the AP.  — ”For L.A. workers who depend on awards shows, this year’s Emmys are a ‘nightmare,’” by the LA Times’ Meredith Blake.  — ”What will offices look like in the post-pandemic future? This Hollywood space offers a preview,” by the LA Times’ Carolina A. Miranda.  MIXTAPE  — ”Judge grants actress Lori Loughlin’s request to serve time at Victorville prison,” via the City News Service.  — “L.A. suffered deadly heat, yet chairs sat empty at its cooling centers,” by the LA Times’ Emily Alpert Reyes.  — ”‘Cheering at a 142’: A Smoke-Shrouded West Coast Is Obsessed with Air-Quality Apps,” by Curbed’s Alissa Walker.  — ”LACMA demolition is nearly complete. Here are the latest photos,” by the LA Times’ Deborah Vankin.  TRANSITIONS  Tejasi Thatte is now chief of staff for Rep. Tony Cárdenas. She most recently was VP of government relations at NCTA - The Internet & Television Association.  BIRTHDAYS  Brian Roehrkasse, VP of comms at Facebook … former CIA Director James Woolsey is 79 … Kiki Burger, account director at Sunshine Sachs … Sarah Sibley …  SUNDAY: Francesca Craig, director of special projects at the MPA … Damien Scott … Henry Samueli turned 66 … Carter Lavin turned 32 …  SATURDAY: Spencer Garrett turned 57 … Andrea Saul, director of policy comms at Facebook ... Ted Scheinman, senior editor at Smithsonian Magazine, turned 35 … Sarah Marie Miller ... Sonali Desai …  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca RBG’s death rocks CA politics, KAMALA in spotlight — EDD reset — NEWSOM signs UNDOCUMENTED tax benefit — ROHRABACHER-ASSANGE offer corroborated