POLITICO Dispatch: October 5 President Trump is in the hospital with coronavirus. We know that much. But there are lots of unknowns about his condition, and his medical team isn't filling in the gaps.  “Contact tracing President Trump in Minnesota: Who hung out with him for how long?” blared a headline in the St. Paul Pioneer Press. The Duluth News Tribune’s above-the-fold front page read simply, “[Rep. Pete] Stauber traveled with Trump.” No further context was necessary.  Photographs of the Duluth rally appeared on social media with red circles drawn around people standing closest to the lectern — and to Trump. Stauber and two other Republican congressmen who traveled with Trump on Air Force One were pilloried for returning to the state on a Delta Airlines flight on Friday night — apparently flouting airline rules.  The House members’ “stupidity and disregard for the well-being of their fellow passengers is staggering,” Ken Martin, chairman of Minnesota’s Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, said in a prepared statement.  Gary Anderson, the Democratic president of the Duluth City Council, said Sunday that Trump “took risks with the health of our community, clearly, and I think that’s how our community is worse off in the most direct way.”  Minnesota, a state Trump lost by fewer than 45,000 votes four years ago, wasn’t supposed to end like this for Trump. It was supposed to be where he stunned all the naysayers this year. Appearing at a rally in Duluth in 2018 to campaign for Stauber, Trump pinched his thumb and forefinger together and told the crowd he’d come “this close” to winning the state, something no Republican has done since Richard Nixon in 1972. One more visit, “one more speech,” he said, and he would have. In 2020, Trump said, “It’s going to be really easy I think.”  Duluth is critical to Trump’s ambitions. Though the city itself is a progressive enclave on the tip of Lake Superior, its media market gives Trump a port of entry to the state’s more conservative Iron Range, a blue-collar mining region that, while ancestrally Democratic, has been trending Republican in recent years.  Trump carried the congressional district surrounding Duluth by 15 percentage points in 2016, and he will need to juice turnout there this year to compensate for losses in the Democratic-heavy Twin Cities and their suburbs. In a year marked by little campaign travel, Trump has lavished attention on Northern Minnesota, dispatching family members to Duluth and appearing himself in Bemidji, Minn., in mid-September. Several mayors from the area publicly endorsed him.  One them, Larry Cuffe Jr., a former Democrat and the mayor of small town Virginia, recalled Sunday that Trump’s campaign provided hand sanitizer and distributed masks at the rally in Duluth last week. Cuffe and the people he was with were all wearing masks, he said, and he wasn’t worried about contracting the virus there.  What’s more, Trump looked good to him. Trump’s speech, Cuffe said, “was even more poignant and more to the point” than he had seen at previous events. Trump’s last rally: A catalog of worst pandemic practices