Maya Wiley launches mayoral campaign with digs at de Blasio — Jewish, Catholic groups sue over shutdowns — Mayors in quarantine Presented by Uber  Maya Wiley kicked off her campaign for mayor — and wasted no time going after her old boss, Mayor Bill de Blasio. The former counsel to the mayor becomes the latest candidate to formally enter the 2021 race. At a launch event in Brooklyn on Thursday, she went straight at what could be one of her biggest liabilities among progressive voters — her association with the incumbent.  “When I am mayor you will never have to wonder who is in charge,” said Wiley, who until recently was a legal analyst for MSNBC and would be New York’s first female mayor. “You will never have to question whether ... the mayor even wants the job,” she said, a day after de Blasio cracked that no one should covet his gig these days. And she took a direct shot at de Blasio’s failed run for president: “You will never have to wonder whether I’m in Iowa.”  Wiley, who chaired the city’s police watchdog panel, the Civilian Complaint Review Board, also split with de Blasio on the firing of NYPD Officer Daniel Pantaleo, who the department took five years to terminate for the death of Eric Garner on Staten Island. And she said she disapproved of the mayor’s use of a state statute to keep police disciplinary records secret, before it was repealed this summer. But asked how she had used her own City Hall perch to fight those battles, she cited legal confidentiality and declined to say.  Out of the gate, Wiley picked up the support of state Sen. Mike Giannaris, City Council Members Steve Levin and Helen Rosenthal, and Assemblymember Michael Blake. She joins City Comptroller Scott Stringer, who formally launched his campaign last month, while another prominent contender, City Council Speaker Corey Johnson, recently chose to bow out . The field of confirmed and likely candidates — minus former veterans commissioner Loree Sutton, who was excluded by organizers — will meet virtually for their first mayoral forum next week.  IT’S FRIDAY, and it’s the deadline to register to vote in the general election if you haven’t already. Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected]com , or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? In Albany with no public events scheduled.  WHERE’S BILL? Appearing on WNYC’s Brian Lehrer show.  PROGRAMMING NOTE: New York Playbook will not publish Monday, October 12. We'll be back to our normal schedule on Tuesday, October 13. In the meantime, please continue to follow POLITICO New York.  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  “A GROUP OF Jewish organizations and the Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn are separately suing Governor Andrew Cuomo to stop the state from enforcing attendance limits on house of worship in parts of New York that have been designated for new restrictions due to rising coronavirus cases. The lawsuits mark an expected and ongoing legal battle spearheaded by religious groups who have decried the governor's limits on religious services amid the pandemic. On Tuesday, Cuomo called for zoned shutdowns in four virus hotspot regions, including portions of South Brooklyn and Queens, and two suburban communities in Rockland and Orange counties that are home to significant numbers of Orthodox residents. In ‘red zones,’ areas with the highest test positivity, no more than 10 people will be allowed to attend houses of worship. The complaint by Jewish groups and individuals, which was filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, described the state's rules as ‘onerous and discriminatory’ and a violation of the First Amendment.” Gothamist’s Elizabeth Kim  “HAROLD ‘HESCHY’ TISCHLER strolled onto 13th Avenue in Borough Park at 9 p.m. Wednesday night, bare-faced and hoarse from days of screaming, and into the arms of an adoring crowd. Hundreds of ultra-Orthodox demonstrators chanted his name, waving Trump and Thin Blue Lines flags as they jockeyed for a chance to meet the brash right-wing radio host leading the campaign to stop the new COVID-19 lockdown measures. ‘We are at war!’ Tischler shouted to the crowd of protesters. ‘You are my soldiers!’ An hour later, Tischler directed an angry mob of young Hasidic men as they surrounded and attacked Jacob Kornbluh, a veteran reporter with Jewish Insider …  “It was the second straight night of rage and violence in Borough Park overseen by Tischler , a heavyset local agitator who spent a year in prison for immigration fraud. During his demonstration on Tuesday, protesters beat up the brother of a well-known Hasidic whistleblower, swarmed a photojournalist documenting the scene, and set fire to surgical masks in the street. There were no arrests or summonses during either night of unrest, according to an NYPD spokesperson. The chaotic street scene marked the latest escalation in the fight over Governor Andrew Cuomo’s new coronavirus restrictions, which will shut down schools and non-essential businesses in Brooklyn and Queens neighborhoods with spiking COVID rates beginning on Thursday. Local Hasidic lawmakers who represent the area have come out against the rules, accusing the governor of singling out Jewish people... But Tischler has gone a step further, vowing to stop the restrictions by force, while peddling conspiracy theories that Democratic officials are deliberately misleading the public about the virus for political reasons.” Gothamist’s Jake Offenhartz  — De Blasio and Cuomo both criticized the NYPD’s approach after no arrests were made during the first two nights of protests, where multiple people were assaulted.  “AL, AN FDNY EMT who makes ambulance runs all over southwest Brooklyn, has seen a change as of late. While responding to 911 medical calls from Bensonhurst to Borough Park in the months past the pandemic’s peak, he’d field a cardiac arrest case about once every other week, he estimates. But in the last two weeks, he’s logged nearly 10. His wife, an EMT in Brownsville and Crown Heights, responded to four cardiac arrest calls in one day recently, he said. For them, the runs stir memories of near-constant cardiac arrest calls in the spring for COVID-19 patients whose hearts couldn’t get enough oxygen. ‘I’m hoping and praying that it doesn’t get to where it was in March and in April,’ said Al, who requested that his last name not be used because he is not authorized to speak to the press. ‘I don’t foresee that happening again to that level, but I do see there being an increase.’ Citywide, ambulance calls in New York are down from the height of the COVID-19 crisis, even dipping slightly below pre-pandemic levels, officials said. But in and around the city’s coronavirus hot zones in Brooklyn and Queens, emergency workers are spotting a difference lately — and New Yorkers there say they are hearing it, too, in the drone of sirens.” The City’s Rachel Holliday Smith  “A BAND OF downtown Manhattan residents are raising nearly $1 million to fight Mayor Bill de Blasio’s plan to relocate homeless residents from an Upper West Side emergency hotel shelter to a permanent facility in their neighborhood, The Post has learned. The newly formed non-profit group, Downtown New Yorkers Inc., has hired the high-profile international law firm Cozen O’Connor in preparation of filing an emergency injunction against the city to block the move. ‘I think we have a really great strategy if we need it,’ the group’s co-founder, Chris Brown, told The Post Thursday.” New York Post’s Julia Marsh and Natalie Musumeci  “WHEN NEW YORK recently said that restaurants could offer outdoor dining year-round, it was a decision these establishments quickly lauded. But for Roni Mazumdar, who owns Indian restaurants in the city, the news was a harsh reminder that the playing field isn’t the same for every dining spot. Mr. Mazumdar is limited by the fact that he can’t set up an outdoor platform in front of two of his places. At Rahi, located in Manhattan’s Greenwich Village neighborhood, a fire hydrant stands in his way. And at Adda Indian Canteen in the Long Island City neighborhood of Queens, a bus stop blocks the area. Mr. Mazumdar isn’t alone in facing such problems. Many of the city’s restaurants have been able to offer outdoor service without complications, and plan to keep doing so even as the weather turns chilly. But others are challenged by the city’s rules that govern the pandemic-era outdoor dining program, known as Open Restaurants, that has now been made permanent year-round.” Wall Street Journal’s Charles Passey  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK: Eight of the nine candidates for Manhattan District Attorney signed a joint letter to Gov. Andrew Cuomo urging him to use his clemency powers to release older people from New York prisons. The plea was organized by the Jim Owles Liberal Democratic Club, which hosted the first candidate forum in the crowded DA race and asked the contenders to pledge their support for the issue. “We urge you to exercise your executive clemency powers to free all elder prisoners, including those convicted of more serious crimes, unless there is an overwhelming and individualized reason to keep them incarcerated,” write the candidates — Tahanie Aboushi, Alvin Bragg, Diana Florence, Lucy Lang, Janos Marton, Eliza Orlins, Daniel Quart, Tali Farhadian Weinstein — arguing that older people are unlikely to commit new crimes and are at higher risk from coronavirus. One candidate, Liz Crotty, declined to sign.      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  “AT LEAST EIGHT New York mayors — including the leaders of Albany and Syracuse — entered quarantine Thursday as a precaution after one of them tested positive for COVID-19 following a joint event the prior day. Binghamton Mayor Richard David was one of 10 mayors to participate in an in-person news conference Wednesday in Syracuse organized by the New York Conference of Mayors, which is pushing for additional federal stimulus aid for local governments hit hard by the coronavirus. By Thursday morning, David announced he tested positive for the virus and was discharged after spending the night at Auburn Community Hospital, where he received a test after the Syracuse event.” USA Today Network’s Anthony Borrelli, Jon Campbell and Georgie Silvarole  — “Albany County saw a worrying increase in the number of positive COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations reported overnight. County Executive Dan McCoy said Thursday there were 20 new cases and three more patients were hospitalized. That brings the county’s hospitalizations to seven, including two people in intensive care. McCoy said he was concerned about the sharp rise in cases over the last week. ‘We don’t need to sound the alarms yet, but we need to take this moment as a warning sign and look at our own data in Albany County: Nearly 150 new positive cases in just one week, the number of residents in the hospital more than doubled over three days and the number of patients in the ICU is ticking up,’ he said.” Times Union Staff  — “Thirteen Erie County residents have died of Covid-19 over the past eight days, marking the highest death total over such a short period of time since mid-July. Six died in hospitals at a time when overall county hospitalizations and patients in intensive care have recently seen a slight, but generally sustained, elevation of numbers. According to state data, Western New York's counties of Erie, Niagara, Chautauqua, Cattaraugus and Allegany had 56 patients hospitalized due to the coronavirus on Wednesday.” Buffalo News’ Keith McShea and Sandra Tan  “BRAD HOYLMAN, a 54-year-old Pfizer-trial participant, has dealt with intense vaccine skepticism . A state senator from New York, Mr. Hoylman sponsored legislation that removed a religious exemption for vaccinating schoolchildren, following New York’s 2019 measles outbreak. Vaccine opponents had hounded his staff and his family before Covid, and when he posted photos of himself receiving Covid vaccine shots in August, the internet trolls were waiting. ‘May your family suffer for eternity,’ tweeted one person over a manipulated photo of Mr. Hoylman with a knife held to his neck. Covid vaccine trials are standard, double-blind studies. For most trials, half of participants receive the vaccine candidate and the rest get a placebo. Participants don’t know which they receive because researchers want both halves of the study to continue their normal routines and expose themselves to Covid.” Wall Street Journal’s Rolfe Winkler and Jared S. Hopkins  BOOK CLUB: Per the POLITICO inbox, Cuomo’s going Live with Kelly Ripa and Ryan Seacrest on Oct. 13 to talk up his new book, and he’s already done an interview with CBS set to air on Sunday.  #UpstateAmerica: Zweigle’s, Inc., of Rochester hotdog and sausage fame, is holding a ribbon cutting on a 15,000 sq. ft. expansion today. All your favorite Rochester politicians are scheduled to be there together!, including Bob Duffy, Rep. Joseph Morelle, Adam Bello, Lovely Warren, State Sen. Joseph Robach and Assemblymember Harry Bronson.  AND ANOTHER ONE: A character from "Tiger King" is sitting in the Washington County Jail at the moment.  #UpstateAlec: Baldwin is repping a SUNY Cortland T-Shirt in the trailer for his new film “Chick Fight.”  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      ... 2020 VISION ...  “GOV. ANDREW CUOMO later this month will be the virtual host for a fundraiser in a race for a key state Senate district. Cuomo is backing Democratic state Sen. Jim Gaughran's bid for a second term in the 5th Senate district on Long Island, a seat that was key for Democrats to win majority control of the chamber two years ago. Long Island Senate seats are often seen as bellwethers for broader state legislative races in the fall and are often a focal point for maintaining power in the chamber. An invitation to the event, scheduled for Oct. 19, says it will be the ‘last major’ fundraising event for Gaughran of the campaign season.” Spectrum’s Nick Reisman  “REP. ANTHONY BRINDISI has opened a 9-point lead over Claudia Tenney entering the final weeks of one of the most closely watched House races in the nation, according to a Siena College | Syracuse.com poll ... Brindisi, D-Utica, leads Tenney, R-New Hartford, 48-39% among likely voters in an eight-county district that covers parts of Central New York, the Mohawk Valley and Southern Tier. A third-party candidate on the ballot, Libertarian Keith Price, is favored by 4% of likely voters. About 9% are undecided. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points. The results mark a dramatic shift from the 2018 election when Brindisi unseated Tenney by fewer than 2 percentage points in one of the most competitive congressional contests nationwide.” Syracuse.com’s Mark Weiner  “THE $4.6 MILLION deal handed to the upstate firm that bungled the Brooklyn presidential election absentee ballot rollout wasn’t the outfit’s first no-bid contract, THE CITY has learned . The city Board of Elections hired Phoenix Graphics despite a state examination that found prior no-bid work notched by the same company wasted millions of taxpayer dollars, records show. THE CITY delved into Phoenix’s past as Mayor de Blasio said Thursday he’d asked the city Department of Investigation to probe the vendor and what happened with the batch of botched absentee ballots that went out to 100,000 Brooklyn voters late last month. De Blasio added that Attorney General Letitia James ‘is aware’ of the issue. A DOI spokesperson said the agency, even before the mayor’s request, had already begun an examination of the screw-up that sent internal envelopes with wrong names and addresses to many.” The City’s Greg B. Smith  “AN END-OF-YEAR election was announced by Mayor de Blasio on Thursday to fill the Bronx City Council seat opened as a result of Andy King’s expulsion earlier this week. King was kicked out of the Council on Monday for misconduct including discriminating against a female staffer and taking a kickback, both findings from the latest in a series of ethics probes about the disgraced pol. King’s budget director, Brian Melford, is among the candidates who have registered with the city’s Campaign Finance Board to run for the 12th District seat, which represents a chunk of the northeast Bronx. The election, scheduled for December 22, will be the first in a likely series of special elections as several City Council members are expected to leave office before the official end of their terms in December 2021.” New York Daily News Shant Shahrigian      AROUND NEW YORK  — The city canceled a $900 million deferred compensation payout to current and former teachers due to its financial crisis.  — Delays on several subway lines led to dangerously crowded trains Thursday morning, straphangers reported.  — The Brooklyn Friends School will drop its opposition to unionization by its staff after workers went on strike.  — A brief history of The Palace Burlesk, a Buffalo ‘skins-titution’ from 1925-1967.  — All state workers are eligible for paperless paystubs now.  — Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, a company with a significant footprint in the Capital Region, was thrust into the national spotlight last week when news broke that Trump took its experimental Covid-19 drug.  — Lynbrook’s police chief said he wouldn’t make his cops wear masks because he doesn’t want to be a “mask Kaiser.”  — Westchester County legislator David Tubiolo has tested positive for the coronavirus, leading to a postponement of the state of the county address.  — Rochester Mayor Lovely Warren has been subpoenaed as part of the City Council’s investigation into Daniel Prude.  — NYPD officers fatally shot a man in Queens after he fired a gun at them.  — NYC schools are starting a monthly Covid-19 testing program.  SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: NPR’s Juana Summers … ABC News’ Justin Fishel is 41 … Julia Schechter, director at SKDK ... Jason Kaplan, VP at SKDKnickerbocker … C-SPAN founder Brian Lamb is 79 … Lily Goldstein … Gabriel Snyder … Valerie Berg … Todd Richman … David Jacobson is 69  IN MEMORIAM — “Jim Dwyer, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter, columnist and author whose stylish journalism captured the human dramas of New York City for readers of New York Newsday, The Daily News and The New York Times for nearly four decades, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 63.”  MEDIAWATCH — Per Talking Biz News: “Wall Street Journal real estate reporter Katherine Clarke has signed a deal with Currency, an imprint of Crown Publishing, to write a book about New York’s skyscrapers. The book, tentatively called ‘Race to the Sky,’ will focus on midtown Manhattan’s towers known as Billionaire’s Row.”  — “WarnerMedia Plans Thousands of Job Cuts in Restructuring,” by WSJ’s Drew FitzGerald, Joe Flint and Benjamin Mullin: “AT&T Inc.’s WarnerMedia is restructuring its workforce as it seeks to reduce costs by as much as 20% as the coronavirus pandemic drains income from movie tickets, cable subscriptions and television ads, according to people familiar with the matter.  “The overhaul, which is expected to begin in the coming weeks, would result in thousands of layoffs across Warner Bros. studios and TV channels like HBO, TBS and TNT, the people said. Rivals including Walt Disney Co. and Comcast Corp.’s NBCUniversal have also cut jobs in recent months as the film and TV business struggles.”  MAKING MOVES — Rosemonde Pierre-Louis has joined the executive board of the Committee for Ranked Choice Voting NYC, replacing Maya Wiley, who stepped down in advance of launching her campaign for mayor. Pierre-Louis is an attorney and chief operating officer at the NYU McSilver Institute for Poverty Policy and Research.      REAL ESTATE  “THOUGH many developers and investors have recently been outspoken in calling for offices to reopen and workers to return to their pre-Covid routines, most trade organizations have come out in support of Cuomo’s restrictions, chief among them the Real Estate Board of New York. His orders range from limiting services to a broader lockdown, which shuts down non-essential businesses, schools and outdoor dining, and reduces the number of people allowed in places of worship to a maximum of 10. New York real estate leaders have largely agreed with the governor’s argument that economic recovery hinges not just on reopening, but controlling the spread of the coronavirus.” The Real Deal’s Erin Hudson and Sasha Jones  “THE LATEST report on apartment rents in New York appears to paint the same picture drawn since the pandemic first shook confidence in the city: Vacancies are soaring, especially in Manhattan, and rents are falling — both an apparent consequence of people fleeing. But other numbers — including an uptick in Manhattan lease signings to near pre-pandemic levels even as more apartments go on the market — suggest the flight from the city could be ebbing . That jibes with what Dan Menchini, owner of U Santini Inc. movers in Brooklyn, has seen in recent weeks. ‘The exodus has slowed down a lot,’ he said Thursday. ‘We’re back to moving people within the city and when people need to relocate because they are doing construction work on their homes.’” The City’s Greg David  Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold Maya Wiley launches mayoral campaign with digs at de Blasio — Jewish, Catholic groups sue over shutdowns — Mayors in quarantine