RBG’s legacy  Editor’s Note: Weekly Shift is a weekly version of POLITICO Pro’s daily Employment & Immigration policy newsletter, Morning Shift. POLITICO Pro is a policy intelligence platform that combines the news you need with tools you can use to take action on the day’s biggest stories. Act on the news with POLITICO Pro.  Quick Fix  Dubbed “the Thurgood Marshall of gender equality law” when she was nominated to the Supreme Court in 1993, Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s unexpected death on Friday will undoubtedly swing the legal trajectory for cases regarding rights for women and LGBTQ people before the Supreme Court.  Mementos left in a makeshift memorial for Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg in front of the Supreme Court on September 19, 2020. | Samuel Corum/Getty Images  During the Obama administration, she joined the majority opinion in United States v. Windsor, the 2013 case that struck down a law preventing same-sex couples from receiving the same federal benefits as heterosexual couples, and she sided with the majority in the Supreme Court’s landmark 2015 ruling legalizing same-sex marriage.  Ginsburg also joined the court's majority in a handful of high-stakes immigration rulings during the Trump administration, such as its surprising 5-4 decision rejecting President Donald Trump’s attempt to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program protecting undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. She also sided against Trump in a 2019 ruling that stopped the administration’s attempt to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census.  But Trump has since instructed the Commerce Department to exclude undocumented immigrants from the census count for the purpose of congressional reapportionment. That effort was blocked by a federal court earlier this month, but the administration appealed the case to the Supreme Court just last week.  Here’s the rub: All of these cases were split along ideological lines, with a conservative member joining the court’s liberals — suggesting that an even greater conservative edge on the Supreme Court will change the outcome on similar issues in the future.  WHAT NOW? Trump wants to fill Ginsburg’s vacancy ASAP, telling thousands of supporters at a campaign rally Saturday that he has a “moral duty” to replace her, and that his pick (to be revealed this week) will be a woman. The shortlist includes: Judge Amy Coney Barrett of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, a devout Catholic; former Florida Supreme Court Justice Barbara Lagoa, now a federal appeals court judge who is Cuban-American; and Allison Jones Rushing, an appeals court judge in her late 30s who would be among the youngest justices ever to serve on the court, according to our Anita Kumar, Marc Caputo and Gabby Orr.  CAN THE SENATE DO THAT? Yes, and Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Friday that Trump’s nominee will “receive a vote on the floor of the United States Senate.”  BUT, BUT, BUT: Some vulnerable Senate Republicans want to hold off on a vote until after Election Day. Sens. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine over the weekend said they oppose moving to fill Ginsburg’s seat immediately. And McConnell can afford to lose only three Republican votes, our Nolan D. McCaskill and Andrew Desiderio report.  RETROSPECTIVE: “The Case That Helped Define Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s Gender Equality Fight,” from The Wall Street Journal  GOOD MORNING. It’s Monday, Sept. 21, and this is Morning Shift, your tipsheet on employment and immigration news. If you’re a health care worker, we want to know what you’re hearing and seeing on the front lines of the pandemic. Share your perspective here. And send tips, exclusives and suggestions to [email protected] and [email protected]. Follow us on Twitter at @Eleanor_Mueller and @RebeccaARainey.  Driving the Day  CALIFORNIA STOPS TAKING NEW UNEMPLOYMENT APPLICATIONS: California's embattled unemployment agency will undergo a two-week “reset” and will not accept new claims during that time, on the recommendation of Gov. Gavin Newsom’s administration, our Katy Murphy reports.  The Newsom administration released a report Saturday with additional recommendations for the state’s Employment Development Department, such as adopting a commercially available identity verification tool. The suggestions were crafted by a team tasked with reviewing the department's aging IT systems.  Department head Sharon Hilliard estimated that it will take until the end of January to get through the state’s current backlog. She said the agency "is proactively looking at ways to reduce that timeline” and that if no changes were made the state “would still be working through the current backlog well into July 2021.”  But Hillard said Californians filing new claims will not actually see a delay in their benefit payments, and that many “will actually get their payments faster” thanks to the new identity verification process.  On the Hill  WOLF GETS HEARING ON CAPITOL HILL: The Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee has penciled in a hearing Wednesday morning on Chad Wolf’s nomination to permanently lead the Department of Homeland Security.  Wolf, a former lobbyist, has served as the acting head of DHS since November of last year, and his confirmation would give the agency its first Senate-confirmed secretary since Kirstjen Nielsen resigned in April 2019.  Legal questions about Wolf's current role in the top spot at DHS will likely come up during the hearing. The Government Accountability Office found last month that he had been invalidly appointed to the role of acting secretary, the result of an improper line of succession.  EEOC NOMINEES IN THE SENATE: McConnell filed cloture last week on a trio of nominees for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, meaning a full confirmation vote is likely this week.  The nominees are Keith Sonderling of DOL’s Wage and Hour Division and Andrea Lucas, to fill the roles of two Republican commissioners, and civil rights attorney Jocelyn Samuels, nominated for a Democratic seat on the commission.  STOPGAP VOTE THIS WEEK? House Democrats are hoping to file a stopgap spending bill by today that would keep the government open through Dec. 11, after congressional leaders missed a self-imposed deadline on Friday to strike a deal, our Caitlin Emma and John Bresnahan report.  House leaders have said they want to vote this week on the continuing resolution, which would extend current government funding levels past Sept. 30 and give them more time to negotiate on a slate of fiscal 2021 spending bills.  WHAT’S AT STAKE: “The measure would tee up a spending standoff during a lame-duck session of Congress, possibly in the middle of a presidential transition,” they write. But passing a dozen fiscal 2021 appropriations bills by Dec. 11 would still be a huge task, as the two parties “remain far apart on a broad swath of spending issues.”  NOT TO MENTION... Congress still remains at an impasse over the next pandemic relief bill, and it’s unclear whether the House or Senate will approve a new tranche of aid before the election. Democrats want to pass at least $2.2 trillion in assistance, while the White House and Republicans are pressing for a lower price tag.  Regulatory Corner  DOL GIG WORKER RULE COMING SOON: The White House budget office has completed review of a DOL proposed rule that would clarify whether gig workers should be classified as employees or independent contractors. OMB wrapped up its review on Friday, meaning the text of the rulemaking should be published soon. The rule will be closely watched by app-based companies like Uber, Lyft and Doordash, as their workers are generally classified as independent contractors who aren’t protected under federal minimum wage and overtime laws.  DON’T FORGET... The timing of the rule would make it vulnerable to repeal under the Congressional Review Act if Democrats were to win the White House and take control of the Senate. (Under that law, Congress can use a fast-track procedure to overturn a regulation issued within the prior 60 legislative days via simple majority votes.)  Unemployment  COVID-19 SPIKES DON’T SHAKE LABOR MARKET: “Large states in the Northeast and West logged some of the highest unemployment rates in the nation in August, while many of their Southern and Midwestern neighbors saw lower rates of joblessness despite significant coronavirus outbreaks over the summer,” Kim Mackrael and Sarah Chaney report for The Wall Street Journal.  “The jobless rate in more than half of states was below the national average of 8.4% in August,” they write, and “many of those states — including Arizona, South Carolina and Texas — recorded a surge in new coronavirus cases during the summer, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.”  Population density also plays a role in state unemployment rates amid the pandemic, according to Aneta Markowska, chief financial economist at the investment bank Jefferies LLC. “As people flee large cities, demand for services is declining further in those areas,” she told the Journal. Meanwhile, “states with large, higher-density cities, including California and Illinois, experienced elevated levels of unemployment in August,” Mackrael and Chaney report.  2020 Watch  COMPUTER SCIENTISTS ENDORSE BIDEN: Two dozen award-winning computer scientists said on Friday that they were endorsing Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, citing the destructive impact of Trump’s immigration rules on the tech industry, Cade Metz reported for The New York Times.  “The scientists, including John Hennessy, the executive chairman of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, are all winners of the Turing Award, which is often called the Nobel Prize of computing,” he writes. “Four of the scientists said the Trump administration’s restrictive immigration rules were a threat to computer research in the United States and could do long-term damage to the tech industry, which for decades has been one of the country’s economic engines.”  Coming up this week  ON TUESDAY: Congress’ Joint Economic Committee will hold a hearing at 2:30 p.m. titled, “The Economic Impact of America’s Failure to Contain the Coronavirus.”  ON WEDNESDAY: The House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and citizenship will hold a hearing at 2 p.m. to discuss “immigrants as essential workers during COVID-19.”  ON THURSDAY: The Senate Aging Committee will hold a hearing at 9:30 p.m. on women and retirement to discuss “unique challenges and opportunities to pave a brighter future.”  At 10:30 a.m., the House Small Business Committee will hold a hearing on loan forgiveness, SBA Legacy Systems and inaccurate data related to the Paycheck Protection Program, in 2360 Rayburn.  At 2:30 p.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on “Diversity in America: The Representation of People of Color in the Media.”  ON FRIDAY: The House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on restaurants in America during the Covid-19 pandemic at 9 a.m.  At 9:30 a.m., a House Small Business subcommittee will hold a hybrid hearing to review PPP loan forgiveness.  What We're Reading  — “CEOs Start to Place Big Bets as Pandemic Grinds On,” from The Wall Street Journal  — “‘I’m so scared’: California nail salon workers face ruin as pandemic wears on,” from The San Francisco Chronicle  — “United urges lawmakers back to the table on coronavirus aid,” from POLITICO  — “No Job, Loads of Debt: Covid Upends Middle-Class Family Finances,” from The Wall Street Journal  — “Housekeepers Face a Disaster Generations in the Making,” from The New York Times  — “Trump at Minnesota rally: Biden will turn state into a ‘refugee camp,’’” from POLITICO  — “I hired you because you’re Black.” from The Washington Post  — “The new startup pitch: We’re not Uber,” from The San Francisco Chronicle  — “Newly revealed USPS documents show an agency struggling to manage Trump, Amazon and the pandemic,” from The Washington Post  THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT!  Follow us on Twitter Rebecca Rainey @rebeccaarainey RBG’s legacy