NYC indoor dining to reopen — De Blasio gets backlash over homeless decision — Teachers test positive for Covid-19 Presented by Uber  Indoor dining will soon return to New York City. After months of keeping it shut down to stem the spread of the coronavirus — the only jurisdiction in the state, and one of a few in the country, to enforce such a ban — Gov. Andrew Cuomo gave city eateries the go-ahead to open their dining rooms on Sept. 30.  There will be rules, and lots of them. Restaurants are limited to 25 percent of their usual capacity, with tables placed at least six feet apart. Diners must have their temperatures checked at the door. Bar service is a no-go. Someone in every party must share contact information with the business in case there’s an outbreak and contact tracers need to track them down. And closing time is midnight.  Still, the announcement is a major step towards some semblance of normalcy for the one-time epicenter of the pandemic, and a boon for the devastated restaurant industry, which has been growing increasingly desperate as colder weather approaches. Indoor dining has been off the table since March, when bars and restaurants were forced to close as the pandemic bore down. Outdoor dining began in June , but plans to allow indoor service as part of the city’s phased reopening were called off as infections surged around the country, though restaurants in other parts of the state were allowed to operate indoors at half capacity. In recent weeks, frustrated restaurant owners hit the city and state with lawsuits and a growing number of politicians came out in favor of allowing it.  At the same time, public health officials and nervous New Yorkers will be watching carefully to see what happens to the city’s Covid-19 numbers when restaurants reopen — just over a week after schools welcome students back — looking to see whether the one-two punch headed into fall leads to new outbreaks. Mayor Bill de Blasio, who was unsurprisingly not a part of Cuomo’s announcement, is mostly on board, saying earlier in the day that the city and state were working on a deal to allow restaurants to open. But he says that if the positive test rate hits 2 percent, the city will quickly reassess the decision.  IT’S THURSDAY. Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected] , or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? In Albany with no public events scheduled.  WHERE’S BILL? Holding a media availability.  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  “AT LEAST least two teachers at different [Brooklyn] schools have tested positive for COVID-19 by the second day of educators’ return to classrooms, a city official and the Department of Education confirmed Wednesday. One teacher was at P.S. 001 Bergen School in Sunset Park and the other teacher at M.S. 88 in Park Slope, City Councilmember Brad Lander said in a phone interview Wednesday. In a statement, a DOE spokesperson confirmed the two cases and said they notified staff at both schools immediately after the results were reported. ‘School staff have access to free, expedited testing and we’ve encouraged all staff to get tested before they return to buildings while we continue to navigate the realities of a pandemic,’ said Miranda Barbot of the DOE in an emailed statement... The city's Test and Trace Corps is also investigating the contacts the two teachers may have had. Under the DOE's protocol, one case does not close down a school, though staff had the option to work from home while contact tracing is complete.” Gothamist’s Sophia Chang  — “School buses will be rolling when New York City’s district schools reopen to students on Sept. 21, Mayor Bill de Blasio promised on Wednesday. His pledge came just days after education department officials told parents it was unclear whether transportation will be in place on time. About 100,000 school bus seats are expected to be available, covering students with disabilities who are legally entitled to bus service as well as thousands of other students who live farther away from their schools.” Chalkbeat’s Alex Zimmerman  — “A long-awaited return to school for some teachers was anything but a welcome sight. Educators at a building for children with severe disabilities walked into dirty conditions, missing protective gear, and incomplete ventilation checks, teachers and union officials said Tuesday.”  — Catholic schools across the five boroughs opened on Wednesday for in-person classes.  MAYOR BILL DE BLASIO drew widespread condemnation Wednesday for his decision to transfer hundreds of homeless men out of an Upper West Side hotel — a move opposed by his own social services commissioner, according to multiple sources. De Blasio said Wednesday he personally made the call to move nearly 300 men out of the Lucerne on 79th street, a luxury hotel in the affluent Manhattan neighborhood, following well-funded opposition ... De Blasio denied Wednesday he was caving to political pressure, insisting it was “the beginning of a larger effort to come back from those hotels” — a shift from just a month ago, when he suggested people experiencing homelessness could remain in hotels until there’s a Covid-19 vaccine. City Hall sources told POLITICO that Department of Social Services Commissioner Steven Banks was not supportive of the decision — and shelter providers, homeless advocates and politicians said it only emboldens homeless shelter opponents around the five boroughs. POLITICO’s Janaki Chadha  — De Blasio said conditions around the Lucerne were “not acceptable” as authorities Wednesday morning discovered a resident had died inside.  — The number of people living in homeless shelters has fallen to its lowest level in six years, likely driven by a moratorium on evictions.  “CHRISTOPHER MCCORMACK is one of the New York Police Department’s highest-ranking officers. As an assistant chief, he helps oversee drug enforcement and organized crime investigations throughout the city. He was hand-picked for the promotion two years ago by his old friend James O’Neill, who was police commissioner. But his ascension started three decades earlier, when he was a rookie cop patrolling drug-infested Washington Heights. … He would earn the nickname 'Red Rage' for his ginger hair, fiery temperament and aggressive approach to policing. Street cop. Sergeant. Lieutenant. By 2006, McCormack was running his own narcotics squad. Captain. Deputy Inspector. By 2011, he had his own precinct, more than 200 officers in his command. ...  “Along the way, police leaders were privy to an ever-growing list of complaints against McCormack, signs that his harsh tactics and heated temperament were pushing the limits. Some of the grievances were made in lawsuits that the city eventually settled. Others were submitted to the Civilian Complaint Review Board, created to investigate misconduct. Many of the allegations were hidden from public view. Using court records, newly released data and a trove of confidential documents, ProPublica has pieced together just how much top officials had to look past to promote him. The allegations against McCormack read in some ways like those against many other cops in the NYPD: that he was destructive in searching a home or overly physical with someone on the street. What stands out, though, is how often Black and Latino men accused him of invasive, humiliating searches. They say he pulled down their pants in public, exposing their genitals; some said he used his fingers to search for drugs around and inside their anal cavities or directed his officers to do so.” ProPublica’s Joaquin Sapien, Topher Sanders and Nate Schweber  “TIFFANY Cabán, a former public defender who ran as an insurgent candidate and came within 60 votes of clinching the nomination for Queens District Attorney last year, is launching her campaign for the City Council on Thursday. Cabán, 33, is running to represent the City Council's 22nd District, which includes parts of Astoria, East Elmhurst, and Rikers Island in Queens. The seat is currently held by Council member Costa Constantinides, who will be term-limited out of office at the end of next year. The former public defender is expected to make the announcement in her home neighborhood of Astoria -- at the same location where she conceded the race against Melinda Katz last summer.” NY1’s Gloria Pazmino  “LAST WEEK, NYPD Deputy Chief Thomas Burns retired from the department after a 36-year career. According to a video tweeted by NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea, Chief Burns received a significant sendoff , including a large indoor gathering inside police headquarters that seemingly violated state health guidance prohibiting events with more than 50 people. Many in the crowd can be seen without masks on. Chief Burns's job was the commanding officer of the NYPD's Family Assistance Division, which helps the loved ones of officers who are ill or have died in the line of duty. More than 40 members of the NYPD have died from the coronavirus since the pandemic began, thousands more have called out sick with the illness... Seth Prins, an epidemiologist and professor at Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health, said the countless photos and videos of NYPD officers without masks on were ‘disturbing.’ ‘It's this kind of behavior that could lead to a second wave, or a second surge, of the virus,’ Prins told Gothamist.” Gothamist’s Christopher Robbins      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  “ROBERT FREEMAN, former director of the state Committee on Open Government, will pay a $15,000 fine to settle claims he broke state law by systematically sexually harassing women while on the job, including several reporters who sought his advice on public transparency disputes. The state Joint Commission on Public Ethics finalized a settlement agreement Wednesday with Freeman, a nationally renowned public-records expert who was abruptly fired from his state job in June 2019 after holding his post for more than 40 years. Freeman, 73, admitted his conduct toward women — as well as using his state-issued computer to view sexual images — violated state Public Officers Law, according to the settlement.” USA Today Network’s Jon Campbell  NEW YORK BUDGET WOES: SHOULD THE STATE FIX ITSELF?: De Rugy and New York University economics professor Nicholas Economides say rather than doling out more federal aid to state and local governments, leaders should identify where expenses can be reduced and productivity increased with fewer employees. ‘It seems to me like the governor has put all his hopes on the federal money, and getting money from the federal government, and that’s extremely dangerous,’ Economides said. ‘It’s possible to do the same job with fewer people. It’s possible to do technological changes that allow you to do things more efficiently, and that seriously needs to be taken into consideration.’” Times Union’s Amanda Fries  — “From taxing second homes to fees on yacht sales, several of the Capital Region's Democratic state lawmakers say all revenue-driving measures should be on the table as a means to fund public schools before they're bled dry…”  — The state teachers union is threatening to sue over Cuomo’s withholding 20 percent of its funding to local school districts.  “A FEDERAL judge dismissed a lawsuit Wednesday that sought to overturn Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s executive order halting evictions during the COVID-19 pandemic. The lawsuit had been filed by a group of Westchester County landlords who said Cuomo violated their rights and deprived them of income. They said the order violated the Due Process Clause and the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution. But U.S. District Judge P. Kevin Castel disagreed — and upheld an earlier court ruling. Further, the judge noted the landlords missed an August deadline for objecting to Cuomo’s request to dismiss the case. ‘The plaintiffs have not come forward despite an opportunity to do so with any argument or reason why the court ought not to grant the motions,’ Castel wrote. Therefore, ‘the clerk shall enter judgment for the defendants and close the case.’” Newsday’s Yancey Roy  #UpstateAmerica: Wow this sucks, kids. This year, New York schools can use virtual learning instead of giving students what would normally be a snow day .  ... 2020 VISION ...  “FIRST-TERM Staten Island congressman Max Rose is running digitals ads calling fellow Democrat Bill de Blasio ‘the worst mayor in the history of New York City.’ Rose is locked in a tough re-election battle against Republican challenger Nicole Malliotakis in the 11th congressional district that encompasses Staten Island and southern Brooklyn. ‘Bill de Blasio is the worst mayor in the history of New York City,’ Rose says in a six second spot as he looks into the camera. ‘That’s the whole ad.’ Rose makes the same accusation in a 15-second spot. Having a few seconds of air time left, he chuckles, ‘That’s it guys. Seriously. That’s the whole ad.’” New York Post’s Carl Campanile  “WATCHDOG GROUPS are urging Gov. Andrew Cuomo to provide $50 million in emergency funds to election board officials across the state to avoid chaos and delays in handling millions of mail-in ballots during the Nov. 3 general election taking place amid the coronavirus pandemic. The request comes after the June 23 primary election that had New York City residents waiting six weeks for the results of certain elections. Absentee ballots accounted for an unprecedented 40 percent of the vote during the primary and tens of thousands of ballots weren’t counted or disqualified.” New York Post’s Carl Campanile  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      TRUMP'S NEW YORK  “A TOP federal lawyer put forth a simple argument for why the Trump administration offered a false and misleading legal defense of its decision to bar New Yorkers from applying from federal Trusted Traveler programs. Senior officials at U.S. Customs and Border Protection just didn't know any better, said Audrey Strauss, the acting U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York. Customs officials wrongly said in earlier court papers that New York, thanks to its Green Light Law allowing undocumented immigrants to get driver's licenses, was the only state that barred the agency from accessing driver's license records. In reality, several other states do the same thing — but ‘CBP was simply not aware of that,’ Strauss wrote in a letter filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan over the weekend. That being the case, it's wrong to presume that the Trump administration officials were lying, Strauss said.” The Buffalo News’ Jerry Zremski  AROUND NEW YORK  — Manhattan gynecologist Robert Hadden is facing federal criminal charges stemming from multiple allegations of sexual abuse against patients.  — Manhattan District Attorney candidate Diana Florence got the endorsement of the Teamsters, the ninth union to support her.  — A pair of protesters are facing federal charges for targeting Rochester cops during recent demonstrations following the death of Daniel Prude.  — New York City malls were allowed to reopen Wednesday, but Midtown’s Manhattan Mall was largely deserted .  — High school football, volleyball and competitive cheerleading won’t happen until March.  — New Yorkers are relying on word of mouth to find coronavirus test with fast results, and Councilmember Mark Levine is working on a bill that would require sites to publish turnaround times.  — The Greenwich Village Halloween parade is off . The city’s biggest Halloween party, Monster Ball, is also canceled, and traditions that do forge ahead will look vastly different.  — Fitness studios home to group exercise classes sued Mayor Bill de Blasio and the city for keeping them closed over coronavirus concerns.  — Pandemic-era homebuyers <3 Pawling .  — College-age adults are driving Erie County Covid-19 growth.  — The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services will send 6.9 million cloth face coverings to New York this month for distribution to students, teachers and staff at schools across the state.  — A 17-year-old in Long Island defied his school’s coronavirus rules and stepped on campus again, after a first strike — saying his goal was to undermine the school’s hybrid plan.  — Amazon opened its new fulfillment center in Schodack and it will employ more than 1,000 full-time workers.      SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: Neera Tanden, president and CEO of CAP, is 5-0 (h/t Allison Preiss) … Renee Hudson … Hunter Walker, White House correspondent at Yahoo News, is 36 … NYT’s Bill Hamilton and Mara Gay … Michael Moroney, SVP at FleishmanHillard … Trey Yingst, Fox News foreign correspondent … Chuck Rosenberg, MSNBC contributor and host of “The Oath” podcast … CNBC’s Hadley Gamble … Josh Nass … Squarespace’s Amanda Cowie is 36 ... POLITICO’s Nahal “Halley” Toosi … Jonathan Soros … Jack Rivers, a VP at Goldman Sachs … Robert M. Beren … Goldman Sachs’ Matthew Fried … Lawrence Garbuz (h/ts Jewish Insider)  ENGAGED — Jack McBride, a VP on the high-yield credit trading desk at Goldman Sachs, proposed to Alex Kinney, the director of fundamental equity business development at Schonfeld and a Citadel and Blackrock alum. He proposed on Nantucket, and the couple met at Princeton but did not start dating until after college. Instapic … Another pic  WELCOME TO THE WORLD -- Katie Rogers, a White House correspondent for the NYT, and John Chinoransky, an audiovisual specialist for Latham & Watkins, welcomed daughter Lily on Aug. 24. Pic ... POLITICO reporter Betsy Woodruff Swan and Axios reporter Jonathan Swan welcomed Esther Jane Swan on Monday. Pic  MEDIAWATCH — Ezekiel Kweku is joining the NYT opinion section as politics editor. He previously was senior editor at New York magazine’s Intelligencer vertical. Announcement ... “Refinery29 Finds Next Top Editor at Facebook,” by NYT’s Marc Tracy: “Simone Oliver, who has worked at The New York Times and Condé Nast, will inherit a workplace described as ‘toxic.’”  MAKING MOVES — Adrian Benepe will become the new president of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. He was city parks commissioner in the Bloomberg administration and then worked at the Trust for Public Land. … Michael Cinquanti has been named SVP and counsel at Albany, O’Donnell & Associates. He most recently has managed the government relations program of the New York State Building and Construction Trades Council.  — Per POLITICO Influence: “Megan O’Leary has joined Kivvit as a principal in its Washington office. She was previously an assistant vice president for public affairs at Makovsky, the New York-based communications and marketing firm.”  WHAT WALL STREET IS READING — “How James and Kathryn Murdoch became a political power couple in the Trump era,” by CNBC’s Brian Schwartz: “They’ve contributed just under $12 million so far this cycle, data shows, with some going toward Biden’s campaign for president in the second quarter. James and Kathryn Murdoch have so far given more than several megadonors such as George Soros, Reid Hoffman and Haim Saban, according to the data.”  FOR YOUR RADAR — “The Met Hires Its First Full-Time Native American Curator,” by NYT’s Sarah Bahr: “Patricia Marroquin Norby, most recently of the National Museum of the American Indian in New York, will soon join the Metropolitan Museum of Art.”      REAL ESTATE  “IN SOME PARTS of the city, rents have dropped since the COVID-19 crisis began. But for neighborhoods that felt the effects of the coronavirus most, listed prices have risen slightly, according to a new analysis. The annual rental report by the apartment-listings site StreetEasy paints a very different price picture between the neighborhoods with the lowest coronavirus infection rates — primarily wealthier neighborhoods in Manhattan and Brooklyn — and the hardest-hit areas, mostly in Queens and The Bronx. Between February and July of this year, rents fell by 1.9% in the zip codes with the lowest COVID-19 rates in the city, like Battery Park City, Greenwich Village and Tribeca, according to the report, comprised of market-rate listing data. However, in the neighborhoods with the highest rates of COVID-19, per city health department data — East Elmhurst, Corona and Jackson Heights topped the list — advertised rents have climbed a bit in the same time period, rising 0.3%.” THE CITY’s Rachel Holliday Smith  “MORE THAN 300 storefronts along Broadway are vacant, a 78% increase from three years ago, a recent survey found, as the coronavirus pandemic puts added pressure on bricks-and-mortar businesses. Manhattan Borough President Gale Brewer and her staff counted 335 street-level vacancies in late August, when they inventoried storefronts along the avenue that spans about 13 miles and 244 blocks between the Financial District and Inwood neighborhoods. A similar survey in 2017 found 188 vacancies. ‘The rent is so high, particularly on Broadway in Manhattan, that it’s hard for the small shops to make a go of it,’ Ms. Brewer said.” Wall Street Journal’s Kate King    Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold NYC indoor dining to reopen — De Blasio gets backlash over homeless decision — Teachers test positive for Covid-19