POLITICO Dispatch: October 26 Some experts say Latinos will be the second largest voting group in this year's election. But the group's ethnical and cultural diversity makes it a particularly difficult one for the political world to understand, and an extremely difficult one for both parties to appeal to.  “That is one of the challenges I am most concerned about: that the Democrats and Biden haven’t done the work again to increase support among Latino voters,” said Valencia. “If the work has not been done to increase support among Latino voters in this last push, and white swing voters regress to the mean in any way … we are in a position where either the election is a lot closer than it should be — when there could have been greater margins — or we’ve lost the election on the margins.”  Valencia is encouraged by a new sense of urgency she has seen from the Biden campaign in recent weeks, including substantial investments in ads in Spanish-language media. “They’re not just translating their ads for the general electorate into Spanish — which is what you often see — or Google Translating ad copy and putting it up on the website,” said Valencia.  One point that concerns Valencia is where messaging intersects with a very real gender gap. Latina women support Biden over Trump by massive margins, but they vote at lower levels than white women or Black women. Combine that with the reality of campaigns — “you often end up focusing on the people we know are definitely going to vote [and] nonvoters get kind of stuck in a cycle of not being communicated with” — and Democrats are leaving potentially millions for Biden off the table.  As the presidential campaigns descend on swing states, Valencia spoke with POLITICO on Wednesday to sort through the complexities of the Latino vote — including the notion that there is such a thing. A transcript of that conversation is below, condensed and edited for length and clarity.  Zack Stanton: We have less than seven weeks until the election. What is the state of the presidential race when it comes to Latino voters?  Stephanie Valencia: All paths to 270 [Electoral College votes] lead through the Latino electorate. Whether that path includes Arizona and Florida, or the upper-Midwest states of Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, every single path requires reaching and engaging Latino voters. There’s a very clear path forward for what needs to get done in the last 48 days, where the opportunity and the challenges still lie.  Historically, what we’ve seen happen is that maybe we get a poll or two of Latinos if a presidential campaign hires a pollster in time — and it may or may not be very robust. Otherwise, we’re kind of left with what we saw a couple of weeks ago out of the NBC/Marist poll in Florida, which kicked off a bunch of the panic we’ve seen over the last few weeks. But in that poll, the sample size of Hispanic likely voters was only 138.  Joe Biden, it’s no secret, didn’t win the Latino vote in the primary. There were some unique issues that Bernie Sanders was able to tap into that really related to the everyday lives of Latinos in this country, including universal access to quality health care, free community college and getting advanced degrees without acquiring a lot of debt, and immigration. And what our latest polling shows is that Joe Biden has been able to recoup and to consolidate a lot of that support, but there are obviously places where he needs to continue to do more.  Stanton: You mentioned the recent polls that are freaking out Democrats. Comparing Trump in polls now to 2016, he seems to be doing better among Latino voters. Why is that?  Valencia: You have to look state by state to really understand what’s driving that. When you look at a place like Florida, where a lot of the alarm was raised over the last week, by our measure, Biden is doing fairly well among Latinos: 53-37 head-to-head against Trump. That’s been a relatively stable marker.  We tend to look at Latino voters in Florida in a very binary way: If we’re not talking about Cubans, then we’re talking about Puerto Ricans. But only a third of the Latino electorate in Florida is actually Cuban-American — it’s very important, but it is only a third. More than one-third is actually not Cuban or Puerto Rican. They’re Mexican. They’re Colombian. They’re Peruvian. They’re Ecuadorian. Combined with the Puerto Rican community, they’re much more similar to each other than not.  Among that [non-Cuban Latino] community, I think the numbers are closer to 60-31 in favor of Biden. When you take Cuban-Americans out of the equation, there’s a much different picture in place in Florida, and a lot of room to have a conversation with a set of voters that campaigns don’t really talk about or think about communicating with — that non-Cuban, non-Puerto Rican population.  What’s interesting about the Cuban-American vote is that really since the Obama era, you have seen a lot of investment [by Republicans] in communicating the “socialism” message [about Democrats]. That has helped bring a lot of Cuban-Americans who may have voted for Obama home to the Republican Party. But fundamentally, there are still many chunks of that Cuban-American population that are persuadable and still gettable for Democrats.  That said, I don’t think Democrats should have a hand-to-hand combat message war over “socialism.” Where Trump has an Achilles’ heel — where he is weakest, even in a place like Florida with Cuban-Americans — is on health care, his handling of Covid and the current state of the economy. That’s really the proactive messaging that Biden and Democrats should be communicating.  Stanton: There’s typically this idea from pundits that Latino voters will recoil at the mention of “socialism.” Perhaps that’s true of Cuban-Americans in Florida. But what we saw from Bernie Sanders was quite the opposite — he had strong support from Latino voters. Why was that, and what did pundits get wrong?  Valencia: There are a couple really interesting takeaways from our research. One is the gender divide. Over the course of the last year, we’ve seen some pretty historic gaps between Hispanic men and Hispanic women. What’s interesting — relating back to Bernie — is that a lot of his support was not driven by young Hispanic men; it was actually driven by young Hispanic women. In the broader electorate, there was this picture of “Bernie Bros.” In the Latino community, it was actually young Latinas — often, non-college-educated single women — who, quite frankly, are a huge opportunity for Joe Biden. It’s one of the universes that we saw in this last round of research that really needs that nudge to vote for Biden. ‘All Paths to 270 Lead Through the Latino Electorate’