LA COUNTY DEM GONZALEZ to lead BIDEN CAMPAIGN in CA — RENDON backs GASCÓN — MEGHAN MARKLE cold-calling for DEMS? — NEWSOM calls for overhaul of EDD system Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ — Gov. Gavin Newsom had some ‘splainin’ to do Monday.  THE PROBLEM: How is it that California — the vaunted capital of the “innovation economy,’’ home to the giants of Silicon Valley, and “America’s next coming attraction,’’ as Newsom likes to brag — still uses an ancient computer language called COBOL and an IT system that dates back to the earliest days of the internet to handle the unemployment claims of millions of California workers?  That’s what Newsom was forced to address Monday. His “strike force” released a report Saturday with recommendations for improving California's backlogged Employment Development Department, which has become the latest albatross around the governor’s neck since the start of the pandemic. Constituents across the state have reported nightmares at EDD, with the unemployed unable to get through the online claim systems or to reach the department by phone. Some filed claims but never received checks. EDD head Sharon Hilliard projected this week it will take until the end of January to get through the current backlog. To turn things around, the report noted, the department needs to take a two-week "reset" before it can accept applications from first-time applicants, POLITICO’s Katy Murphy reported.  Gov. Gavin Newsom gives an update on the state's response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in Rancho Cordova, Calif., June 26, 2020. | AP Photo/Rich Pedroncelli, Pool  HE BURIED THE LEAD: Despite the shock at news that unresolved claims are growing to the tune of 10,000 a day — as the LA Times’ Patrick McGreevy reported — and the potential implications for millions of Californians, Newsom buried the lead in his briefing Monday. After a scathing op-ed from the Sac Bee's Gil Duran on Newsom’s weekend dump of information — which critics said aimed to minimize its impact — the governor addressed the EDD crisis, though only after wildfire and Covid-19 updates, including a new PSA on masks starring Oscar the Grouch.  “The work we have to do is self-evident as it relates to unemployment and support for those that are trying to navigate our unemployment and pandemic unemployment assistance system here in the state of California,’’ Newsom said. “This system is an old, 30-plus-year-old technological system. … These legacy COBOL systems that need to be upgraded, frankly, need to just simply be strewn to the waste bin of history.  So now, critics and political opponents have emerged in force to lambaste the Newsom team’s report, which in effect called for a complete system overhaul. (The governor said the Saturday night report release came because “I didn’t want to wait another day.”)  Among them was San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer, reported to be exploring a possible run for governor, who tweeted: “It feels like doctors might develop a COVID vaccine before the State of California figures out how to send unemployment checks to people on time. There’s a backlog of 1.5 MILLION unemployment claims. How are Californians supposed to provide for themselves, for their families?”  And John H. Cox, the Republican who ran against Newsom in 2018 — and is exploring another go — told POLITICO Monday that “the world has undergone this complete technological revolution the last 20 years. This is inexcusable, that our government hasn't. And why? You know, we've had plenty of money to spend on a train that’s way over-budget. Right.”  BOTTOM LINE: With state unemployment at 11.4 percent, and millions counting on those checks, Newsom vowed that tackling problems in the aging system will help Californians get help from EDD faster and far more efficiently in the future. Still, he didn’t offer any timeline on when the relief will be coming.  In other words: “The check’s in the mail”?  Stay tuned.  BUENOS DÍAS, good Tuesday morning. Laid-off health care and hospitality workers will caravan from around California to the State Capitol today to urge Newsom to sign AB 3216. The bill, now awaiting Newsom’s signature, aims to strengthen worker protections during the Covid-19 pandemic by requiring employers to notify laid-off employees of new, open jobs that they may have qualified for. UNITE Here Local 49, which is organizing the protest, will hold a 4 p.m. press conference.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: "They have this massive valve up north, and as the water comes pouring down from the snow — all beautiful, nice, clean water — they send it out. Because there's a tiny little fish that they're trying to save, that's doing very poorly by the way. I think it's a smelt." President Donald Trump on California’s delta smelt in an interview with Fox News host Mark Levin.  TWEETS OF THE DAY: A generational Dem divide on display in response to Sen. Dianne Feinstein’s comments in defense of the Senate filibuster and against adding Supreme Court justices: Stockton Mayor Michael Tubbs @MichaelDTubbs: “We have to eliminate the filibuster. We have to expand SCOTUS.” And Long Beach Mayor @RobertGarciaLB: “END THE FILIBUSTER and EXPAND the COURT. Period.”  PODCAST OF THE DAY: New deep dive KQED podcast series on the housing crisis, “Sold Out: Rethinking Housing in America,” by Erin Baldassari and Molly Solomon.  AND THERE’S THIS: Kara Swisher, in her new New York Times Opinion podcast about power, “Sway,’’ interviews House Speaker Nancy Pelosi: “If the election were held today, we would win it all.”  WHERE’S GAVIN? Nothing official announced.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  PATRIOTIC PLAN? — “California schools launch anti-racism plan, flouting Trump's threats,’’ by POLITICO’s Mackenzie Mays: SACRAMENTO — “The California Department of Education announced new anti-racism lessons and teacher training for school districts on Monday, days after President Donald Trump decried the notion of teaching slavery as a founding tenet of the U.S. and called for a more ‘patriotic education.’”  SPILLWAY — “Oil Companies Are Profiting From Illegal Spills. And California Lets Them,” by the Desert Sun’s Janet Wilson and ProPublica’s Lylla Younes: “Across some of [California’s] largest oil fields, companies have for decades turned spills into profits, garnering millions of dollars from surface expressions that can foul sensitive habitats and endanger workers. … A close review of the state’s new rules shows they contain several large loopholes that keep oil from surface expressions flowing — the result of years of lobbying and pushback by the energy industry.”  MEGHAN’S MOVE — “Gloria Steinem Says She and Meghan Markle Cold-Called U.S. Voters,” by Vanity Fair’s Emily Kirkpatrick: “During her casual conversation with the activist last month, Meghan also expressed her enthusiasm over Kamala Harris's vice-presidential nomination. ‘I’m so excited to see that kind of representation,’ the duchess said at the time. ‘You know, for me, being biracial growing up, whether it was a doll or a person in office, you need to see someone who looks like you in some capacity.’”  — “Abolish the Electoral College or award electors on a proportional basis,” Jessica Levinson and Michael A. Genovese write for CalMatters: “Here’s why California, with our 55 electoral votes, is largely useless when it comes to picking the president of the United States.”  FACE IT — “Controversial facial-recognition software used 30,000 times by LAPD in last decade, records show,” by the LA Times’ Kevin Rector and Richard Winton.  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  — "Enormous California wildfire threatens desert homes near LA," by the AP's Christopher Weber.  SKELTON’S TAKE — “To study wildfire prevention, Berkeley experts are looking to Baja. Newsom should too,” by the LA Times’ George Skelton: “Baja [California] has a big mountain range that resembles the Sierra Nevada, but it’s healthy and fire-resilient. That’s because until relatively recently, it was managed by nature, not humans — except for Indigenous people who knew what they were doing.”  — “Californians moved to Oregon for affordable housing. Wildfires left them homeless,” by the LA Times’ Molly Hennessy.  — "Firefighter killed in El Dorado blaze identified as a 14-year veteran," by the LA Times' Matthew Ormseth.  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  NEWSOM SIGNS BILL — “California governor signs laws to protect workers from virus,’’ by the AP’s Adam Beam: “California companies must warn their workers of any potential exposure to the coronavirus and must pay their employees workers compensation benefits if they get sick with the disease under two laws that Gov. Gavin Newsom signed Thursday.”  — “L.A. County awaiting more COVID-19 Labor Day data that could determine movement to next reopening tier,” by KTLA’s Nisha Gutierrez-Jaime and Courtney Friel.  — ”'Not a normal childhood': California parents struggle as Covid and fires collide,” by the Guardian’s Dani Anguiano: “Outdoor activities, which had become an important escape for people as Covid-19 shut down much of the state and prevented most gatherings and in-person learning, became impossible.”  RISING DEATHS — ”California surpasses 15,000 coronavirus deaths, just behind Texas,” by the LA Times’ Rosanna Xia.  FALLING RATES — "California’s COVID-19 positivity rate drops below 3% for the first time," by the LA Times' Laura J. Nelson.  — ”Coronavirus restrictions ‘mocking God’ in San Francisco, says Catholic archbishop,” by the Mercury News’ Maggie Angst: “They (officials in City Hall) are mocking you, and even worse, they are mocking God,” [San Francisco Archbishop Salvatore Joseph Cordileone said].  — ”Chief Medical Officer for United Health Centers passes away from COVID-19 complications,” via KFSN.  — ”Orange County could stay in the red tier longer if coronavirus testing doesn’t pick up,” by the OC Register’s Ian Wheeler.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  — “Trump's TikTok Deal: What Just Happened And Why Does It Matter?,” by NPR’s Bobby Allyn: “On Saturday a striking thing happened: Trump took a victory lap for signing off on a last-ditch deal to rescue TikTok, boasting that the China problem had been solved. A new company would be incorporated in the U.S. and ‘will have nothing to do with China,’ the president said.”  — “President Trump calls injured California cops, one of whom can’t speak and wrote out her responses,” by CNN’s Eliott C. McLaughlin.  SILICON VALLEY SIGNAL? — “Trump officials rush to make it tougher for skilled foreign workers to gain visas,” by Reuters’ Ted Hesson: “Companies across multiple industries are very concerned about the potential disruption these proposals will inflict upon their operations,” Jon Baselice, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s executive director for immigration policy, said in a statement.”  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  NEW BIDEN CA CAMPAIGN HEAD — Los Angeles County Democratic Party Chair Mark J. Gonzalez is taking over as California director for the Biden campaign. Gonzalez said in a statement that California sets the standard on issues “from healthcare, to worker’s rights, to Black lives, down to protecting immigrant rights and especially our right to vote” and vowed to work to “make sure Democrats win up and down the ballot here in California” — a reminder that even if Biden is all but certain to scoop up California’s electoral votes, House races are far less certain.  — “Biden can thank Californians for his big lead in the money race,” by the LA Times’ Evan Halper and Seema Mehta: “Although Biden’s choice of California Sen. Kamala Harris as his running mate turbocharged his fundraising, especially in her home state, the president’s actions have been the bigger impetus to donors.”  KAMALA’S MOMENT — “Supreme Court fight could elevate Kamala Harris’ profile,” by the AP’s Kathleen Ronayne: “A highly anticipated confirmation hearing would almost certainly change that, giving Harris a massive platform to demonstrate her political skills and articulate the campaign’s message that Ginsburg’s successor shouldn’t be chosen until after the election.”  TRUMP'S TACTIC — "Stoking his base, Trump warns of a Kamala Harris presidency," by NBC's Sahil Kapur.  CAMPAIGN MODE  LOS ANGELES DA DASH — Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon has officially joined the stampede of Los Angeles elected officials forsaking incumbent LA District Attorney Jackie Lacey and backing her opponent, progressive challenger George Gascón. In a statement, Rendon said Gascón stands on the right side of history as “the voters and the legislature alike continue to embrace reforms to end California's involvement in a failed war on drugs and the policies of mass incarceration that defined the 1980s and 1990s.”  PROP 24 — “California’s Proposition 24 would protect data-privacy law from being weakened in Legislature,” by the SF Chronicle’s Dustin Gardiner: “The Nov. 3 ballot initiative would prohibit legislators from weakening the California Consumer Privacy Act, create a state agency to enforce privacy protections, and give people more control over how tech companies use their personal information, such as race or health data.”  SOLAR SPLIT ROLL FIGHT — Supporters of Prop.15, the “split roll” measure on the November ballot, are challenging new ads that argue it would result in “massive taxes” on solar energy projects in California.  Schools and Communities First, the educational and labor coalition backing Prop. 15 — which says the ballot measure will raise an estimated $12 billion annually for communities and schools — insisted that the ads and website put out by a coalition of agricultural groups make “blatantly false’’ claims about the measure’s impacts on solar projects. Schools and Communities First noted that earlier this month, Newsom signed SB 364, “which ensures that property tax exclusions for solar developments would be unaffected by Prop. 15.”  The California Business Roundtable’s No on 15 campaign website has argued that the bill is a special interest bailout and is unconstitutional. But Prop. 15 backers say that major solar advocacy groups like the Large Scale Solar Association and the Solar Energy Industries Association now back the measure.  A statement via email from the Solar Energy Industries Association: “Our concerns with Proposition 15 have been remedied by the enactment of Senate Bill 364. This bill addresses unintended impacts of Proposition 15 on utility-scale and commercial solar projects and will allow solar development to move forward in California. … .SEIA and its members do not oppose Proposition 15.”  MORE ON PROP 15 — “Forty-two years later, another property tax battle,” by CalMatters’ Dan Walters.  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  GAVINLAND  — “Environmentalists say they'll sue Newsom over oil permits,” by POLITICO’s Colby Bermel.  — “Project Homekey: Newsom Announces $236M In Grants To House Homeless; San Francisco Gets $45M For Hotel,” via KPIX.  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  COURT IN SESSION — “The eviction tsunami begins,” by 48 Hills’ Tim Redmond: “Although the state is not allowing people to be evicted for nonpayment of rent due to COVID, there are plenty of other grounds that landlords are using to get rid of tenants.”  — “The District Attorneys Pushing Back on 'Tough on Crime' Politics,” by KQED’S Ericka Cruz Guevarra, Marisa Lagos, Marisol Medina-Cadena and Alan Montecillo.  — "City challenges LAPD officer’s lawsuit alleging harassment by Garcetti aide," by the LA Times' Dakota Smith: "Garza, who worked on the mayor’s security detail, sued the city in July, alleging that Garcetti consultant Rick Jacobs made crude sexual comments and touched him inappropriately over several years. City attorneys also argued that Garza waited too long to sue under the statute of limitations. Garza also never reported the alleged harassment, city attorneys wrote."  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — “Justice Department expected to brief state attorneys general this week on imminent Google antitrust lawsuit,” by WaPo’s Tony Romm: “The timeline puts federal competition watchdogs on track to file a case against Google potentially next week.”  — “Big Tech spent millions to close California’s digital divide this year. It’s hardly making a dent,” by Protocol’s Issie Lapowsky.  IT’S TODAY — “What to expect at Tesla's Battery Day event,” by the Verge’s Andrew J. Hawkins: CEO Elon Musk “has left a trail of breadcrumbs over the years in the form of tweets, public comments, patents, and research papers published by his team of battery scientists, hinting at what kinds of battery breakthroughs Tesla may unveil.” How to watch the livestream, via Car and Driver’s Roberto Baldwin.  — “This Deal Helped Turn Google Into an Ad Powerhouse. Is That a Problem?” by NYT’s Steve Lohr.  HOLLYWOODLAND  WEST WING IS BACK — “Martin Sheen, Allison Janney and Rob Lowe are pictured filming HBO special to promote voting in 2020 election... as they wear face shields on location in LA,” by the Daily Mail’s George Stark.  CANNABIS COUNTRY  — ”New Marijuana Coalition Unveils Plan To Legalize Interstate Cannabis Commerce,” by Marijuana Moment’s Kyle Jaeger.  MIXTAPE  STEYER SALE — “Ex-candidate Tom Steyer lists SF home for $11M,” via The Real Deal.  — “Oakland A’s clinch American League West for first time since 2013," by the Mercury News' Shayna Rubin.  — “As California blazes rage, travel nurses fill critical need at fire camps,” by the SF Chronicle’s Tatiana Sánchez.  — “Magnitude 3.4 earthquake felt near Temescal Valley, Calif.,” via Quakebot.  NEW TARGET — “Burglars switch to homes in S.F. as tourists, and their cars, stay away,” by the SF Chronicle’s Phil Matier.  — “Inside San Francisco’s new COVID-compatible outdoor Barber Collective,” by the SF Chronicle’s Iris M. Crawford.  BEST TORTILLAS EVER — “Inside El Cholo: How the old-school Mexican restaurant has thrived in LA for almost a century,” by Gustavo Arellano for KCRW.  MEDIA MATTERS  TURMOIL AT THE TIMES — “L.A. Times shaken by a summer of turmoil and scandals,” by the LA Times’ Meg James and Daniel Hernandez: “Since early last year, six prominent editors have been either pushed out, demoted or had responsibilities reduced because of ethical lapses, bullying behavior or other failures of management.”  IN MEMORIAM  — “Lewis Butler, prominent modernist architect to Bay Area luminaries, dies at 63,” by the SF Chronicle’s Sam Whiting.  BIRTHDAYS  Saul Perlmutter ... John Fishel  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca LA COUNTY DEM GONZALEZ to lead BIDEN CAMPAIGN in CA — RENDON backs GASCÓN — MEGHAN MARKLE cold-calling for DEMS? — NEWSOM calls for overhaul of EDD system