Ryan Tyson, a Florida Republican pollster and founder of the Tyson Group, said Biden is running up against a ceiling of 38 percent with white voters that other Democrats almost always hit in Florida.  “Biden might be doing a point or two better than Hillary Clinton did in 2016,” Tyson said of the race for Florida’s senior vote. “But he is hitting the same ceiling with white voters that Hillary Clinton and [2016 Democratic gubernatorial candidate] Andrew Gillum did. If Democrats figure that out, they win the state. But they have not.”  To break out, Biden has put more than $700,000 into a Florida ad highlighting Trump’s “planned cuts to Social Security.” The ad references an August executive order from Trump that would temporarily suspend the collection of payroll taxes, which fund Social Security. It’s Biden’s seventh senior-focused ad.  In a Tampa Bay Times op-ed, Biden wrote about “Donna and Roger” from The Villages, a retirement community north of Orlando, and how Trump’s mishandling of the coronavirus pandemic left them unable to see their grandchildren.  “Jill and I feel the same way about not seeing our grandchildren as much as we want to,” Biden wrote. “Video calls are great, but they’re just not the same, especially after six months of being away from the ones you love the most at the time in your life you need them the most.”  Trump last week rolled out a package of health care-focused promises, including mailing $200 drug discount cards to retirees before Election Day to defray the cost of prescription drug co-pays, a push to end the practice of surprise medical billing, and a pledge to protect insurance coverage for people with preexisting conditions.  And, like Biden, Trump also is tapping into fear. One campaign ad contemplates a lawless future if Biden becomes president. The 30-second spot concludes with “You won’t be safe in Biden’s America”. Trump’s campaign has so far put $1.1 million behind the ad in Florida, of which more than $400,000 was spent in the Orlando media market, home to The Villages. ‘He just lies’: Florida’s senior voters suddenly are in play - POLITICO