TRUMP, FIRST LADY test positive for COVID — BUDGET pain ahead as PELOSI signals no deal — CAGOP back to NO. 2 — WILSON backs TRUMP’s ‘good judgment’ Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ: California budget-planners are sharpening their axes this week.  A coronavirus aid deal isn’t coming, Speaker Nancy Pelosi conceded Thursday. House Democrats couldn’t surmount their impasse with the White House after Pelosi’s negotiations with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin underscored the substantial daylight between both sides. The House passed Democrats’ $2.2 trillion plan on a largely symbolic and party-line vote last night, but members will head back to their districts without a deal to tout to voters they’re telling to reelect them, as POLITICO’s Sarah Ferris, Melanie Zanona and Heather Caygle report.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi talks to reporters in the House Visitors Center at the U.S. Capitol on October 01, 2020. | Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  That forces California into the kind of fiscal pain this year’s budget hoped to avoid. The deal Gov. Gavin Newsom and legislative leaders struck delayed some $11 billion worth of reductions and deferrals, making those cutbacks contingent on getting federal aid by Oct. 15. It now looks exceedingly unlikely those funds will arrive in California’s accounts in two weeks. POLITICO’s Katy Murphy has detailed how that would hit courts, higher education, state workers and others.  While Newsom has publicly projected optimism about reinforcements arriving, many California Democrats are resigned to waiting for a new president. When you see California Democrats campaigning and raising money for Joe Biden, remember that it isn’t just about the Supreme Court or health care or the environment. It also involves a basic dollars-and-cents calculus. In this view, stabilizing California’s economy — and forestalling an avalanche of evictions and foreclosures next year — depends to a great extent on who’s in the White House.  BUENOS DÍAS, good Friday morning. BREAKING LAST NIGHT: President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump tested positive for Covid-19. “We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “We will get through this TOGETHER!“ In other coronavirus news, an appeals panel on Thursday declined to halt California’s pandemic-related restrictions on religious gatherings. While the U.S. Supreme Court has already backed Newsom on this issue in May, that was a 5-4 ruling — and a Justice Amy Coney Barrett could tip the balance if this goes back to SCOTUS.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “You cannot get closer to total disobedience of any kind of law. What’s happening up here is full-on anarchy.” Shasta County Executive Officer Matt Pontes on coronavirus defiance, via Bloomberg’s Michael Lewis.  TWEET OF THE DAY: Oakland Mayor @LibbySchaaf after President Donald Trump again bashed Oakland, this time during Tuesday’s debate: “Don’t want to hear our beloved town’s name come from his foul and ignorant mouth again? #Vote”  BONUS TOTD: Former state Sen. Kevin de León @kdeleon responding to former California Gov. Pete Wilson's endorsement of President Donald Trump: "Why isn’t this shocking? Two of America’s biggest immigrant bashers—past and present. Birds of a feather flock together."  WHERE’S GAVIN? Nothing official announced.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  THEY’RE NUMBER TWO! — “California Republicans reclaim second-place status from independents,” by POLITICO’s Jeremy B. White: “Still, the party has lots of work to do. There are still fewer registered Republicans than there were between 2000 and 2012, although the party is rebounding from its 2016 nadir. … Democrats saw the largest overall gains since last cycle, adding some 1.6 million registered voters. Their edge over Republicans increased by some 1.3 million voters between 2016 and 2020.  “And the numbers could indicate a negative development for Republicans: more no-party-preference voters registering as Democrats. While Republican's share of the electorate remained stable from 2018 to 2020, Democrats expanded their share as the proportion of party-less voters declined. … There are now 21.2 million registered voters, which is 84.7 percent of the eligible voter pool — the highest share in the last 68 years. It's also some 3 million more registered voters than in 2016.”  GUILFOYLE ALLEGATIONS — “The secret history of Kimberly Guilfoyle’s departure from Fox,” by the New Yorker’s Jane Mayer: An assistant to the former San Francisco first lady alleged “she was frequently required to work at Guilfoyle’s New York apartment while the Fox host displayed herself naked, and was shown photographs of the genitalia of men with whom Guilfoyle had had sexual relations.”  — “‘It’s Not Real Justice’: Vallejo Officer Fired, But Not For Deadly Force,” by KQED’s Ericka Cruz Guevarra.  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  — “The fire retardant dropped out of planes? It’s sticky, gooey and made in the Southland,” by the LA Times’ Samantha Masunaga.  FIRE IMPACT — “Santa Cruz County lost almost 1,000 homes to the CZU fires. Its housing crisis is now worse than ever,” by the SF Chronicle’s Mallory Moench.  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  CHURCH CLOSURES — “Appeals court swats request to pull California's restrictions on religious gatherings,” by POLITICO’s Jeremy B. White: “A majority of the panel noted that congregate activities like going to movie theaters, attending concerts and watching sporting events have also been curtailed or prohibited. The court also backed California’s argument that transmission risk ‘is elevated in indoor congregate activities, including in-person worship services.’”  NOT SO AMUSED — “Disneyland’s push to reopen sets up critical moment in California’s coronavirus fight,” by the LA Times’ Soumya Karlamangla, Phil Willon and Stephanie Lai: “The Walt Disney Co., one of the world’s largest entertainment companies, partially blamed California’s strict reopening rules for massive layoffs in its theme park division after trying unsuccessfully to get officials to allow the gates of Disneyland to swing open again.”  HE'S OUT — “Disney chairman quits Gavin Newsom’s economic task force as company announces layoffs," by the Sac Bee's Sophia Bollag: "The spokesperson would not say why or precisely when Iger left the task force, but the news comes as the Newsom administration is preparing to release guidance on theme park reopening that the industry is criticizing."  — “Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 vaccine study to be the third massive trial to reach San Diego,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Jonathan Wosen: “Local researchers aim to enroll 3,000 to 3,500 San Diegans. That includes 2,000 volunteers at UC San Diego and 1,000 to 1,500 at M3 Wake Research, an organization that provides clinical research facilities and services.”  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  WILSON FOR TRUMP — “Pete Wilson endorses Trump, says president has 'very good judgment',” by POLITICO’s Carla Marinucci: “Wilson was among nearly seven dozen members of past GOP administrations and Congress who backed Trump in a signed letter that was released by the campaign Thursday and tweeted by the president.”  — “Amazon and Big Tech cozy up to Biden camp with cash and connections,” by Reuters’ Nandita Bose.  HISTORY LESSON — “Trump’s war on election integrity follows a racist playbook used in 1980s Orange County,” by the LA Times’ Gustavo Arellano.  DEBATE FALLOUT — “‘Are we going to choose white supremacy?’ Voters of color react to Trump’s comments,” by the LA Times’ Jenny Jarvie and Brittny Mejia: “Trump’s inflammatory performance on Tuesday and his reluctance to distance himself from right-wing extremists caused shock waves across the nation and social media, provoking a flurry of tweets from NBA stars and rappers, civil right activists and political pundits, as well as actors and actresses.”  CAMPAIGN MODE  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK — ZUCK’S BUCKS: The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, founded by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, is channeling some final millions into ballot initiatives: another $4.5 million to Proposition 15, which would raise commercial property taxes, and against Proposition 20, which would roll back sentencing and parole changes, in addition to local housing measures. The initiative’s Mike Troncoso said in a statement that the measures would have “long-term impacts for criminal justice reform, affordable housing policy, and especially for communities of color.”  GIG FIGHT — The labor-backed campaign to beat back Proposition 22, which would exempt app-based companies from reclassifying their workers as employees, is out with its first statewide television spot. The ad accuses these companies of “breaking state employment laws for years” and trying to “buy themselves a new law.” Take a look.  — “CA Dem Cut Employee Health Care Benefits as Real Estate Executive,” by the Free Beacon’s Collin Anderson: “Rouda took control of his late father's real estate agency, HER Realtors, in October 2012. Months later, the California Democrat rescinded health care coverage for workers at the agency, according to the longtime former employee.”  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK — LGBTQ POWER: Leading LGBTQ rights organization Equality California is boosting six Democratic House candidates with a digital and mail push. The recipients are Reps. Josh Harder, TJ Cox, Gil Cisneros, Katie Porter and Harley Rouda and Assemblymember Christy Smith.  — “Nancy Pelosi, Shahid Buttar don’t have statements in S.F. voter guide. Here’s why,” by the SF Chronicle’s John Wildermuth.  CA-25 ENDORSEMENT — Smith picked up an endorsement from civil rights icon and United Farm Workers co-founder Dolores Huerta in her fight to unseat GOP incumbent Rep. Mike Garcia.  LOS ANGELES DA — “Here are the mega-donors and police unions pouring millions into the L.A. County district attorney race,” by the LA Times’ Maloy Moore, Ryan Menezes and James Queally.  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  — “New Laws Keep Pandemic-Weary California at Forefront of Health Policy Innovation,” by California Healthline’s Samantha Young and Angela Hart: “Though COVID-19 forced California leaders to scale back their ambitious health care agenda, they still managed to enact significant new laws intended to lower consumer health care spending and expand access to health coverage.”  FREE PRESS — “Newsom vetoes bill that would have further protected journalists covering protests,” by the LA Times’ Colleen Shalby.  — “Jewish groups angered by California high school ethnic studies curriculum lobbied for veto,” by the SF Chronicle’s Dustin Gardiner.  — “In Bay Area, police citations hit Black, Latinx, unhoused residents hardest,” by the Mercury News’ Marisa Kendall.  HISTORY LESSON — “California was a free state. But there was still slavery. Now reparations are on the table,” by WaPo’s Gillian Brockell: “Many White Southerners who moved to the California territory during the Gold Rush (1848 to the mid-1850s) brought the people they enslaved with them. … In exchange for passing legislation making California a free state — tipping the balance of power toward free states — lawmakers also passed a strict fugitive slave law that effectively ‘turned the criminal justice system and legal system in the United States into bounty hunters for slave owners.’”  CLEAN ENERGY COSTS — “California wants to wind down its gas and oil industry. What does it mean for jobs?” by the Sac Bee’s Jeong Park: “Even as the number of clean energy jobs rises in California, the quality of those positions vary wildly, from rooftop solar installers making just above minimum wage to those working in utilities making $50 an hour. Environmental and labor advocates say it’s up to the state to ensure those clean energy jobs are as good as the jobs in the oil and gas industry they will replace.”  — “Dozens of Sacramento massage parlors profit from sexual services. A crackdown may be coming,” by the Sac Bee’s Theresa Clift, Molly Sullivan and Benjy Egel: “Behind the darkened doors in some of these places, women – often immigrants from Asia and speaking very little English – are trafficked and forced into sexual labor, activists and city officials say.”  — “Most San Diego County school districts have reopened or plan to reopen in October,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Kristen Taketa.  SHAKIN’ IT UP: California launched a broad new public education campaign on Thursday that offers residents no-cost tools, resources and information on how to prepare for the next big shaker. “Don’t Get Caught Off Guard,” from the Governor’s Office of Emergency Services, includes easy access to Earthquake Warning California, the state’s earthquake warning system.  Cal OES Director Mark Ghilarducci said in a statement to POLITICO that the ability of the public to get “moments of warning before previously unexpected natural disasters’’ will not only save lives, but is “changing the world of mitigation and emergency management."  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — “House Republicans voice support for antitrust ‘tweaks’ on tech,” by POLITICO’s Cristiano Lima and Leah Nylen: “Key House Republicans on Thursday embraced reining in big tech companies by tweaking antitrust laws and giving federal regulators more resources, but rejected the sweeping regulations or break ups that some Democrats are pushing for.”  DRAGGING ‘EM IN — “Senate panel votes to subpoena CEOs of Google, Facebook and Twitter,” by POLITICO’s John Hendel.  GRIM NUMBER — “Amazon says more than 19,000 workers got Covid-19,” by CNBC’s Annie Palmer.  — “Americans might never come back to the office, and Twitter is leading the charge,” by WaPo’s Elizabeth Dwoskin.  CANNABIS COUNTRY  — “Western wildfire smoke delays outdoor cannabis harvest, exposing climate impact,” by Marijuana Business Daily’s Bart Schaneman.  MIXTAPE  — “San Diego, Phoenix soccer teams trade accusations, denials in alleged homophobic incident,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Mark Zeigler.  — “A glance at LeBron James' purchase of Beverly Hills home for $36 million,” by the Sac Bee’s David Caraccio.  — “Can we offer you some kimchi in these trying times?” — an homage to the Korean side dish, via the LA Times.  — “Figure skating: Four Bay Area athletes to start Grand Prix season in Las Vegas,” by the Mercury News’ Elliott Almond.  BIRTHDAYS  Angelo Farooq, chair of the California Workforce Development Board … Lauren Belive, director of federal government relations at Lyft  EVENTS  INITIATIVE BREAKDOWN: Sunday, Oct. 4, 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. — Join California Playbook’s Jeremy B. White and Jill Cowan, author of the New York Times’ daily California newsletter, for a ballot initiative discussion hosted by the Daily Californian, the University of California, Berkeley’s student paper.  A 2020 ELECTION PREVIEW: Tuesday, Oct. 6, 11 a.m. to noon — The Public Policy Institute of California hosts a discussion on the critical issues and media coverage in the 2020 election. Panelists: NPR’s Tamara Keith, The New York Times’ Jennifer Medina, KQED’s Priya David Clemens and FiveThirtyEight’s Perry Bacon, moderated by POLITICO’s Carla Marinucci.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca  Follow Us TRUMP, FIRST LADY test positive for COVID — BUDGET pain ahead as PELOSI signals no deal — CAGOP back to NO. 2 — WILSON backs TRUMP’s ‘good judgment’