How K Street sees a Biden presidency Presented by Robinhood  With Daniel Lippman  HOW K STREET SEES A BIDEN PRESIDENCY: The law and lobbying firm Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck sent memos to clients this morning outlining what the firm’s lobbyists think Joe Biden will do if he wins. At the top of the agenda, unsurprisingly, would be another coronavirus relief package. “A stimulus package prior to the November election is highly unlikely, and barring a major winter resurgence of the virus coupled with a spike in business closures and unemployment, a lame duck stimulus bill is also an uphill climb,” the firm writes in one memo. Exactly what Biden proposes “will depend on the public health and economic outlook,” the firm continues. “If unemployment rates continue to fall and infection rates do not worsen during the winter, a smaller, more targeted package is likely.”  — The memo also lays out what Biden might do on health care, taxes, education, financial services, the minimum wage, trade, energy and the environment, among other policy areas. A second memo outlines what Biden might do on taxes if Democrats retake the Senate. And a third memo — which the firm admits is “highly speculative” — offers guidance on what many lobbyists’ clients really want to know: who Biden is likely to tap to staff his White House and fill his cabinet if he wins.  — Here are some of the names the firm mentions: Ron Klain or Steve Ricchetti for White House chief of staff; Jake Sullivan, Tony Blinken or Robert Malley for national security adviser; Jared Bernstein, Heather Boushey or Jason Furman as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; and Lael Brainard, Sarah Bloom Raskin or Larry Summers as chairman of the National Economic Council. (Summers said last month that he wouldn’t join a Biden administration, for what it’s worth.)  — More names: Susan Rice, Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) or Blinken for secretary of State; Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Jamie Dimon, Richard Cordray or Neel Kashkari for Treasury secretary; Michèle Flournoy or Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) for Defense secretary; Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.); Preet Bharara, Stacey Abrams or Sally Yates for attorney general; Reps. Raúl Grijalva (D-Ariz.) or Deb Haaland (D-N.M.) for Interior secretary; Vermont Lt. Gov. David Zuckerman for Agriculture secretary; Rohit Chopra or Susan Helper for Commerce secretary; William Spriggs or Sharon Block as Labor secretary; and Ezekiel Emanuel, Andy Slavitt, Vivek Murthy; former Delaware Gov. Jack Markell; Andrea Palm or Mandy Cohen for Health and Human Services secretary.  — Even more names: Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti or Reps. Karen Bass (D-Calif.) or Chuy García (D-Ill.) for secretary of Housing and Urban Development; Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Beth Osborne or Garcetti for Transportation secretary; Washington Gov. Jay Inslee or Rep. Andy Levin (D-Mich.) for Energy secretary; Pete Buttigieg, Randi Weingarten or Lily Eskelsen Garcia; Jason Kander or Duckworth for veterans affairs secretary; Vanita Gupta or Julian Castro for Homeland Security secretary; Michael Wessel or Buttigieg for U.S. ambassador to the United Nations; Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.) or Inslee as Environmental Protection Agency administrator; and Tom Donilon for director of national intelligence.  Good afternoon, and welcome to PI. Tips: [email protected]. Twitter: @theodoricmeyer.  A message from Robinhood: We believe everyone should be able to invest.  That’s why we’re meeting people with free, digestible financial news. Simple and direct educational resources. And an app that helps you invest at your own pace, on your own terms. Because the financial system should be built to work for everyone. Learn More  NEW BUSINESS: The Blackstone Group has added Jonas Neihardt of Eastport Strategies to its roster of outside lobbyists. He’ll lobby on real estate issues and coronavirus-related liability issues for the private equity giant, he said in an interview. Neihardt was an in-house lobbyist for Hilton, in which Blackstone held a stake for more than a decade, before leaving to start his own firm earlier this year. Blackstone hired PricewaterhouseCoopers over the summer to lobby on the taxation of real estate investment trusts and also retains half a dozen other outside lobbying firms, according to disclosure filings.  TWITTER RESHUFFLES WASHINGTON OFFICE: “Twitter's public policy director, Carlos Monje, has left the social media company's Washington office to join the transition team for Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, a person familiar with the move said Thursday, POLITICO’s Steven Overly reports. The company has also beefed up its Washington office with several new hires and promoted Lauren Culbertson, who’s been with Twitter since 2017, “to the head of U.S. public policy. Culbertson started her own consulting business prior to joining Twitter and previously served as deputy communications director for former Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.).”  — Joining her are Amy Murphy, a former Internet Association lobbyist, who “will focus on privacy and internet liability law”; Todd O’Boyle, who left Lime “to handle Twitter’s policies related to elections, the census, violent extremism and immigration”; and Wifredo Fernandez, who “will help manage federal and state advocacy after working as a legal fellow at the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative.”  ANNALS OF CONGRESSIONAL SIDE GIGS: Rep. Andy Harris (R-Md.) “has broken with the scientific mainstream during the coronavirus pandemic — decrying stay-at-home orders and warning of a ‘cult of masks.’” Now Harris, who’s also a medical doctor, “has joined the hunt for coronavirus treatments with an unpaid side gig overseeing a drug company trial,” POLITICO’s Zachary Brennan reports. “Harris is one of three members of the data and safety monitoring board for the trial run by NeuroRx, a small Delaware company whose CEO and founder has longstanding ties to the congressman.”  — “The members of the board are responsible for monitoring safety and efficacy data from the ongoing trial, which started in May, and have the power to end the study if problems arise. The drug in question, aviptadil, was created in 1970 to treat lung inflammation, but never reached the market. NeuroRx is now investigating whether it can help Covid-19 patients with acute lung failure. Harris’s role is an unusual one: Former [Food and Drug Administration] Commissioner Scott Gottlieb told POLITICO that he’d never heard of a sitting member of Congress serving on a data monitoring committee for any drug.”  — “The arrangement doesn’t appear to run afoul of House ethics rules because Harris is not being paid by NeuroRx and does not own a stake in the company. But several bioethicists questioned his lack of experience in evaluating data from drug trials, and said that his close ties to NeuroRx CEO Jonathan Javitt could complicate matters if problems arose with the company’s study.”  GRAHAM RAISED MONEY FROM PODESTA GROUP BEFORE BASHING IT: Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) has been running TV ads for the past month “criticizing his Democratic challenger Jaime Harrison for working for the Podesta Group,” the Washington lobbying firm that collapsed in 2017. But Graham hasn’t always been opposed to the firm, The Post and Courier’s Jamie Lovegrove reports. “During Graham’s last reelection campaign, the South Carolina Republican held a fundraiser with more than a dozen Podesta Group lobbyists at a Capitol Hill townhouse owned by the firm’s co-founder, Tony Podesta, according to an invitation obtained by The Post and Courier.”  — “Attendance at the April 11, 2013, breakfast fundraiser cost $1,000 for individuals and $2,000 for political action committees, according to the invitation. Federal disclosures show Graham raised more than $14,000 from Podesta Group lobbyists over the course of his 2014 campaign.”  Jobs Report  — Sirona Strategies has hired Kevin Farrelly as a senior director and Casey Osgood as a director. Farrelly previously worked in the University of Virginia health system’s federal and state government relations office and Osgood previously worked in Deloitte’s Center for Health Solutions.  New Joint Fundraisers  Alan Cohn Victory Fund (Cohn for Congress 2020, Democratic Executive Committee of Florida)  Booker Kennedy Victory Fund (Sen. Cory Booker, Amy Kennedy for Congress)  Booker Win the Era Victory Fund (Sen. Cory Booker, Win the Era PAC)  Shedd Victory Fund (Arizona Republican Party, NRCC, Tiffany Shedd for Congress Committee)  New PACs  Advance Oklahoma PAC (Super PAC)  Chinese American Republicans Inc (PAC)  For a Better Colorado (Super PAC)  North Country PAC (Super PAC)  Remembering the Past, Forming the Future (Super PAC)  Stand for Better LLC (Super PAC)  Vote Early 2020 (PAC)  New Lobbying Registrations  Banner Public Affairs, LLC: Varsity Tutors LLC  Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough: HIFU Prostate Services, LLC  New Lobbying Terminations  Bridge Public Affairs, LLC: Custom Biometric Wearables Inc.  Russell Public Communications: Digital Pathology Association  SPQR Strategies, PLLC: Application Developers Alliance  A message from Robinhood: This is the future of investing. Investors are becoming younger and more diverse. So we’re meeting them with content that’s made for them. ● 250% increase in unique daily visitors to our Learn resources since January 2020  ● 20M+ weekly newsletter subscribers  ● 1.9M monthly unique podcast listeners for Robinhood Snacks in June Learn More How K Street sees a Biden presidency