Senate to vote on another aid package next week  Editor’s Note: Weekly Shift is a weekly version of POLITICO Pro’s daily Employment & Immigration policy newsletter, Morning Shift. POLITICO Pro is a policy intelligence platform that combines the news you need with tools you can use to take action on the day’s biggest stories. Act on the news with POLITICO Pro.  Quick Fix  — The Senate will vote on a $500 billion pandemic aid package next week, but Democratic leaders are still holding out for a bigger deal.  — The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed the Trump administration to end the census count early, which could let the administration finalize the numbers without including undocumented immigrants.  — Polling suggests that California voters will reject a ballot measure to allow affirmative action hiring and admission policies in the state.  GOOD MORNING. It’s Wednesday, Oct. 14, and this is Morning Shift, your tipsheet on employment and immigration news. If you’re a health care worker, we want to know what you’re hearing and seeing on the front lines of the pandemic. Share your perspective here. And send tips, exclusives and suggestions to [email protected] and [email protected]. Follow us on Twitter at @Eleanor_Mueller and @RebeccaARainey.  Driving the Day  MCCONNELL LINES UP SENATE VOTE ON SKINNY AID PACKAGE: The Senate will vote next week on another slimmed-down package from Republican leaders, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Tuesday.  What’s in the bill: The $500 billion package would provide more money for the Paycheck Protection Program, which helped small businesses pay employees during the pandemic, and some extra unemployment aid, though it’s unclear what form that would take. It would also enact coronavirus infection liability protections for businesses and send more cash to hospitals, among other things.  Big picture: The measure is a far cry from the nearly $2 trillion bill Democrats had demanded, and nearly as far from the $1.8 trillion compromise the White House — over Republican objections — had offered them. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has already denounced the package.  MORE: “McConnell dares Democrats to block 'targeted' Covid relief before election,” from our Burgess Everett and Sarah Ferris  Supreme Court  SCOTUS GIVES TRUMP OK TO CEASE CENSUS COUNT: “The Supreme Court has cleared the Trump administration to proceed with its plan to end enumeration for the decennial census early, blocking a lower court order that required the government to continue with the count as originally planned through the end of October,” our Zach Montellaro and Josh Gerstein report.  BACKGROUND: “After initially claiming it required an extension due to the coronavirus outbreak, the Trump administration switched gears this summer and said it would end enumeration a month early, by Sept. 30, so it could produce census data for apportionment of congressional districts for the next decade by the end of the year.” SCOTUS’ move clears an obstacle to one of President Donald Trump’s major immigration goals.  STATE OF PLAY: Trump instructed the Census Bureau in July to exclude undocumented immigrants from the census count for the purpose of congressional reapportionment — a request that is separately tied up in court from litigants who say it is unconstitutional. Last month, a separate panel of judges blocked that memo.  But the Department of Justice has appealed that decision to the Supreme Court, arguing that “expedited consideration” is needed due to fast-approaching statutory deadlines. The Commerce secretary must deliver the census data to the president by Dec. 31, and the president in turn must give apportionment counts to Congress by Jan. 10, 2021. (More details on that from Zach.)  As our Steven Shepard has noted, the new, shorter timeline provided for by Tuesday’s ruling could allow the Trump administration to finalize the census count — and exclude undocumented immigrants, if granted a favorable ruling by SCOTUS — before the inauguration of a President Joe Biden.  In the States  CALIFORNIA AFFIRMATIVE ACTION MEASURE UNLIKELY TO PASS IN NOVEMBER: Polls are showing that Californians are likely to reject Proposition 16, a state ballot measure that would allow an applicant’s race and gender to be considered in public college admissions and public-sector hiring, our Alexander Nieves reports.  “The surprising mood of the California electorate is confounding state lawmakers and political strategists, who believe the moment is riper than ever to repeal” a 1996 ban on affirmative action, Alexander writes. “A defeat now could delay the return of affirmative action for years, squandering a 2020 opportunity with racial justice top of mind for voters across the U.S.”  NEW YORK WINS SUIT OVER TRUSTED TRAVELER PROGRAM: A federal judge handed Gov. Andrew Cuomo a victory in his long-running fight with the Trump administration over a prohibition on New Yorkers enrolling in expedited border-crossing programs, our Bill Mahoney reports.  Although DHS ended the ban in July, Southern District of New York Judge Jesse Furman wrote in an opinion issued Tuesday that the move was “unlawful” from the get-go and that it should be vacated to “ensure that it cannot be reinstated.”  BACKGROUND: “The Department of Homeland Security imposed the prohibition in February, saying that New York’s new law allowing undocumented immigrants to obtain driver’s licenses made it impossible to properly vet applicants to the programs,” Bill writes.  Around the Agencies  SCALIA’S WIFE TESTS POSITIVE FOR COVID-19: Labor Secretary Eugene Scalia’s wife, Trish, tested positive for coronavirus Tuesday afternoon, DOL announced in an email Tuesday night, and “is experiencing mild symptoms but doing well.” The Labor Secretary tested negative on Tuesday evening, according to DOL, and “has experienced no symptoms.”  Labor Secretary Eugene Scalia and his wife Trish walk by the Supreme Court building on Wednesday, Sept. 23, 2020, in Washington. | AP Photo/Andrew Harnik  Scalia and his wife, as well as his mother, Maureen, were in the second row during a Rose Garden event for Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett on Sept. 26 that was also attended by at least 10 people who later tested positive for Covid-19, according to the Washington Post. “All three also were inside the White House for a private reception with Trump and Barrett.”  2020 Watch  BIDEN REVIVES FIZZLED ‘BUY AMERICAN’ HOPES: The Democratic presidential nominee is attempting to do for American manufacturing what Trump could not, our Doug Palmer reports.  The plan: “Biden hopes to win back blue-collar voters who deserted Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election with a four-year plan to spend $400 billion on federal government purchases of an array of American-made goods,” Doug writes. “Biden also promises to invest another $300 billion to develop technologies like electric vehicles, 5G networks and artificial intelligence.”  The goal: “The two initiatives will help create at least 5 million new jobs in manufacturing and innovation, the Biden campaign contends. If realized, that would boost manufacturing jobs to around 17 million, a level not seen in the United States since the early 2000s.”  In the Workplace  LAB STAFF SHORTAGES SLOW COVID TESTS: “As the U.S. has processed more than 1 million daily Covid-19 tests four times in the past week, the demands placed on laboratories are exacerbating longstanding staffing shortages,” Brianna Abbott reports for The Wall Street Journal. Now, some laboratories are “hiring traveling laboratory scientists, investing in automation and sometimes flexing schedules or raising salaries.”  “Laboratories that don’t have adequate staff sometimes have to limit the amount of testing they can do, which can force them to reduce the types of tests they offer,” Abbott reports. “The shortages could also extend turnaround time for test results.”  COMPANIES PUSH BACK RETURN TO OFFICE: More and more white-collar companies are delaying when their employees can go back to working in-person until the summer of 2021, The New York Times’ Gillian Friedman and Kellen Browning report.  “Google was one of the first to announce that July 2021 was its return-to-office date. Uber, Slack and Airbnb soon jumped on the bandwagon. In the past week, Microsoft, Target, Ford Motor and The New York Times said they, too, had postponed the return of in-person work to next summer and acknowledged the inevitable: The pandemic isn’t going away anytime soon.”  Immigration  STATE DEPARTMENT HOLDS BACK SOME REFUGEE DATA: The State Department last week ceased releasing some statistics on refugees admitted to the U.S., including data on their religious beliefs, Religion News Service’s Emily McFarlan Miller and Jack Jenkins reports.  A spokesperson said the changes were due to “the development of a new information technology system, which won’t be completed until December 2021, and concerns about privacy,” they write.  “The shift has raised concerns from at least one of the faith-based organizations tasked with resettling refugees in the country. The data helped groups such as World Relief track whether the federal government is living up to its pledges to help those facing religious persecution.”  MORE: “U.S. Agents Returned Migrants to Honduras in Unauthorized Operation, Senate Report Says,” from The Wall Street Journal  — “Department Of Homeland Security Employees Have Been Told To Report Colleagues Suspected Of Leaking Information,” from BuzzFeed News  What We're Reading  — “24 hours in the life of American workers,” from The Washington Post  — “Theater Chain AMC Says It Could Run Out of Cash by Year-End,” from The Wall Street Journal  —“Thousands of Amazon workers demand time off to vote,” from NBC News  — “The seasonal job is getting a makeover and, in many cases, a pay raise,” from The Washington Post  — “Biden’s son-in-law advises campaign on pandemic while investing in Covid-19 startups,” from POLITICO  — “Google Employees Are Free to Speak Up. Except on Antitrust,” from The New York Times  — “Tri-State Area Police Unions Fight to Keep Disciplinary Records Private,” from The Wall Street Journal  THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT!  Follow us on Twitter Rebecca Rainey @rebeccaarainey Senate to vote on another aid package next week