Presidential debate: CHAOS in CLEVELAND — ICE to launch targeted arrest campaign in CA — Covid-19 effects: DISNEY to lay off 28K — SCHWARZENEGGER funds voter ‘super centers’ — NEWSOM’s deadline: Sign or veto Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ: It was chaos in Cleveland. A disaster. A dumpster fire. A train wreck.  That’s how the highly anticipated first presidential debate of 2020 will be remembered — a disorganized 90-plus-minute dogfight between former Vice President Joe Biden and a combative President Donald Trump, who insisted on repeated interruptions and left decorum on the wayside.  And moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News also had a role in the disgrace, failing to get control for nearly the entire 90 minutes of the forum. The jaw-dropping turn of events had even veteran reporters agog. CNN’s Dana Bash gave the most accurate review of the night, live on air: “That was a s---show.”  THE BOTTOM LINE: “Trump mayhem takes over first debate,” by POLITICO’s David Siders: “The mayhem Donald Trump subjected Americans to on Tuesday might have helped him if Joe Biden had disintegrated. Biden didn’t. Trump — and viewers everywhere — just left the night worse off for having sat through the whole, weird thing.”  President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential candidate former Vice President Joe Biden participate in the first presidential debate Tuesday, Sept. 29, 2020. | Olivier Douliery/Pool via AP  But there were some California-centric highlights:  CRAZY CA: After saying he's "getting along very well with the governor'' in California, Trump said, "I'm all for electric cars … but what they've done in California is just crazy.'' (A statement that came just days after Gavin Newsom signed an executive order mandating that sales of gas-powered cars and trucks will be phased out by 2035.)  RAKING THOSE LEAVES: Asked about California wildfires, Trump said: "The forest floors are loaded up with trees … and leaves and everything else." He added: “Every year I get the call, ‘California's burning, California’s burning.’ If you had good forest management, you wouldn't be getting those calls.” But as @CalMatters noted: “California only owns about 3% of the state's forest. The largest landlord of forestland in California? The federal government.”  ON DEEP-BLUE CITIES: Also on Tuesday night, Trump said, "Look at Oakland, look what happened in Oakland. … It was more violent than what I’m even seeing now,’’ and blamed Democratic-run cities. What Trump didn’t say: A federal officer was killed in May in Oakland during protests — allegedly by a member of the right-wing ‘boogaloo boys’ who used peaceful protests as a cover, the Washington Post’s Katie Shepherd reported.  HEADLINE OF THE NIGHT: Trump refused to condemn white supremacy, instead saying, "Proud Boys, stand back and stand by."  KAMALA REACTS: “The president of the United States, in the year of our lord 2020, refuses to condemn white supremacists,’’ Kamala Harris told CNN’s Jake Tapper, post-debate.  HOW THEY SAW IT:  ON THE GOP SIDE — Harmeet Dhillon, former vice chair of the California Republican Party and RNC member from CA: “One thing that was very striking to me … was how frequently Chris Wallace came to the aid of Joe Biden, how frequently he interrupted President Trump. … The president did a great job and repeating the successes of his administration and in reflecting those, and in really taking Joe Biden to task for his 47 years of not achieving.’’  ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE — Amelia Matier, former consultant for Assemblymember Buffy Wicks and the Pete Buttigieg campaign: “There is no way anyone normal watched it all the way through. Biden looked like the adult in the room and Trump looked unhinged. Trump’s constant interruptions actually helped at a key moment when the moderator asked Biden about abolishing the filibuster and packing the court — Biden didn’t have to answer the question.”  LOCAL ANGLE: “Oaklanders angry at Trump's accusation of 'violent' Oakland,’’ by SFGATE’s Amy Graff.  FROM THE TWITTERSPHERE:  — Stockton Mayor @MichaelDTubbs: “The fact that the President thinks hating racism is the same as hating America is deeply telling of who he is and why he is not fit to lead a multi-racial democracy.”  — Warriors phenom @StephenCurry30: “Stand back and stand by??????????? No further questions your honor! #vote”  — GOP consultant and former Schwarzenegger spokesperson @RobStutzman: “Why would anyone watch two more of these debates?  — Former CA first lady @MariaShriver: “I came into tonight excited and hopeful to see this debate and I have to say I'm flabbergasted that was a presidential debate. I'm dismayed by what I saw. #PresidentialDebate”  BUENOS DÍAS, good Wednesday morning. It’s the final day for Gov. Gavin Newsom to sign or veto bills. Among the measures we’re still waiting on: a hotly contested bill requiring hotel and hospitality businesses to prioritize rehiring workers laid off during the pandemic.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: "The events surrounding Cambridge Analytica are now impossible. … It is just simply no longer possible for that to happen on Facebook." Former British deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg — now Facebook’s vice president for global affairs and communications — when asked by POLITICO if a similar data-gathering operation could take place on the platform.  TWEET OF THE DAY: Former California Gov. Arnold @Schwarzenegger after he logged on to a local meeting in Cameron County, Texas to announce his first grant from the University of Southern California’s Schwarzenegger Institute to open more polling places nationwide: “Thank you to Cameron County for applying for a grant! I am so pumped for the voters to have access to these voting super-centers. Like I said, I owe this country everything and this is one of my best investments.”  BONUS TOTD: George Takei @GeorgeTakei: “Eric Trump saying he’s ‘part of the LGBT’ community is like me saying I’m part of the fantasy football community. I might think I know what a ‘tight end’ and a ‘wide receiver’ are, but I would be sorely mistaken.”  WHERE’S GAVIN? Nothing official announced.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  ‘HAPPIEST PLACE ON EARTH’— “Disney to lay off 28,000 employees as coronavirus slams its theme park business,” by CNBC’s Sarah Whitten: “The company declined to break down the layoffs by individual park locations.”  DEEP DIVE: WORKER SAFETY — “How Amazon hid its safety crisis,” by Reveal’s Will Evans: “With weekly data from 2016 through 2019 from more than 150 Amazon warehouses, the records definitively expose the brutal cost to workers of Amazon’s vast shipping empire — and the bald misrepresentations the company has deployed to hide its growing safety crisis.”  — “Anita Hill’s Commission Launching Industry-Wide Platform to Report Sexual Harassment in Hollywood,” by Variety’s Elizabeth Wagmeister: “The key findings of the study deal with accountability, the abuse of power, the difficulty of reporting harassment and retaliation. The study found that people of color and younger employees were among the most vulnerable workers in Hollywood.”  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  IN WINE COUNTRY — “Uncontrolled Glass Fire still raging in Napa Valley, Calistoga and Santa Rosa: ‘Like a bomb went off,’” by the SF Chronicle’s Sarah Ravani, Michael Cabanatuan, Roland Li and Jill Tucker.  — “Changing wind conditions shift pressure to northern, eastern flanks of Glass fire,” by the Press Democrat’s Mary Callahan.  — “After dozens died in 2017, Santa Rosa residents were prepared when flames returned this week,” by the LA Times’ Paige St. John.  — “List of Napa Valley wineries destroyed or damaged in 2020 Glass Fire,” by the Mercury News’ Linda Zavoral and Jessica Yadegaran.  IN SHASTA COUNTY — “California fire that killed 3 is uncontained; reinforcements called in,” by the LA Times’ Luke Money and Matthew Ormseth.  AND ELSEWHERE… “Football-sized chunks of ash rain down on Bay Area as California wildfires rage,” by the Sac Bee’s Brooke Wolford.  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  — “San Francisco can move forward with limited indoor dining, places of worship Sept. 30,” via KGO.  PLAYTIME — “California allows playgrounds to reopen after long wait for families,” by POLITICO’s Kevin Yamamura.  — “Sacramento yoga studio shrugs off COVID-19 regulations. Will health officials bend rules?” by the Sac Bee’s Gil Duran: “Sacramento has remained in the worst tier for coronavirus infections, but Zuda’s owners — Anne Marie Kramer and Chris Cuevas — apparently think the rules don’t apply to them. With public health officials hesitant to punish scofflaws, they may be right.”  — “19 California lawmakers call on Newsom to reopen Disneyland, other theme parks,” by POLITICO’s Victoria Colliver.  — “L.A. fails to advance out of California's most restrictive reopening tier,” via POLITICO.  — “Westfield Sues LA County To Reopen Indoor Malls,” via CBSLA.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  CONSTITUTIONAL ROUTE: Rep. Eric Swalwell's (D-Calif.) resolution for peaceful and orderly transition of power, as called for in the Constitution, passed on a 397-5 vote in the House Tuesday. Those voting against, according to Swalwell: Reps. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Clay Higgins (R-La.), Steve King (R-Iowa) and Thomas Massie (R-Ky.).  — “ICE preparing targeted arrests in sanctuary cities, amplifying president’s campaign theme,” by WaPo’s Nick Miroff and Devlin Barrett: The operation, “known informally as the ‘sanctuary op,’ could begin in California as soon as later this week.”  COUNTY-BY-COUNTY ANALYSIS: “Trump Attacks Them. COVID-19 Threatens Them. But Immigrants Keep the US Fed,’’ by Mother Jones’ Susan Ferriss and Joe Yerardi: “A county-by-county analysis drives home how crucial Latino immigrants are to the food supply.”  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  HOFFMAN HAUL — LinkedIn co-founder and Democratic megadonor Reid Hoffman has channeled around $2.7 million toward defeating Trump via memes, according to a new filing unearthed by the California Target Bot. The recipient company is on “a mission to make memes that matter,” per Meme2020’s website.  SULLY SAYS: California hero airline pilot Sully Sullenberger is urging people to vote against Trump in a new ad via the Lincoln Project, The Hill’s Kaelan Deese reports.  — “Ahead of debate, Biden campaign attacks Facebook for allowing 'dangerous claptrap,'” by POLITICO’s John Hendel and Christiano Lima.  — “Biden and Trump offer Latino voters different visions of America — and of each other,” by the LA Times’ Melissa Gomez, Vanessa Martinez and Rahul Mukherjee: “The Trump campaign warns of Latin American-style ‘socialism’ and of police not answering 911 calls — and portrays Biden as not a strong enough leader. The Democratic nominee’s ads excoriate Trump over his handling of a pandemic that is disproportionately affecting people of color, contrasting Biden as the one with a plan, and show the president as mistreating immigrants and refugees.”  CAMPAIGN MODE  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK — GOP VOTER stars in new anti-Nunes spot: “I’ve been a Republican all my life, and I voted for Devin Nunes, but decades in Washington has changed him” — that’s the start of a new spot for CA-22 Democratic challenger Phil Arballo that hits the Central Valley today with a six-figure buy. Watch the spot, called “Not a Politician.”  BAIL BUCKS: Billionaire philanthropist John Arnold has dropped $3.5 million to preserve California’s money bail ban by passing Proposition 25. For context, Arnold’s foundation has devised and circulated a pretrial risk-assessment tool to replace cash bail.  2022 WATCH — “Low v. Gonzalez? 2022 secretary of state race could feature tech proxy fight,” by POLITICO’s Jeremy B. White: “While they would vie to manage California’s elections, the race could draw interest because of [Evan] Low and [Lorena] Gonzalez’s divergent views on economic issues — particularly when it comes to regulating tech companies. Besides getting the opportunity to run state elections, the winner would be well-positioned to seek another statewide office down the road.”  LA DA — “Endorsement: George Gascón for L.A. County district attorney,” by the LA Times editorial board: “He brings with him the frontline experiences of a cop who saw the tough-on-crime ethic wreak havoc in the communities he policed, and is one of the few police leaders to question the old-style approach.”  AND THERE’S THIS: Superstar entertainer John Legend narrates the newest ad for Gascón, which ran Tuesday night during the presidential debate. In the spot, called “Wake Up,’’ Legend says incumbent District Attorney Jackie Lacey “has done nothing about police brutality.”  — “Rep. Gil Cisneros and Young Kim face CA-39 rematch under very different circumstances,” by the OC Register’s Brooke Staggs.  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  GAVINLAND  LAST NIGHT — “Gov. Gavin Newsom vetoes bill to aid low-income immigrants,’’ by AP’s Adam Beam: “Gov. Gavin Newsom has vetoed a bill that would have authorized California to give low-income immigrants $600 to buy groceries.”  HOMELESSNESS REVIEW — The good news for Newsom out of a new University of California, Berkeley Institute of Governmental Studies poll is that most Californians approve of his job performance (64 percent). But homelessness continues to be a major liability for him: A majority of Californians said he was doing a poor or very poor job handling the issue, which a plurality of Californians called the most important concern facing the state.  — “Newsom signs bill designed to add more people of color on California juries,” by the SF Chronicle’s Dustin Gardiner: “California will soon draw juries from a larger group of people who are more reflective of the state’s population as a whole, including people of color and low-income residents.”  — “Fatal cases of COVID-19 at nursing facilities prompt new California law," by the LA Times' Patrick McGreevy.  BILL TRACKER — “On the verge of becoming law: These 2020 bills are up to California’s governor,” via CalMatters.  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  — “California Democrats are spending public money on voter outreach. Are they breaking the rules?” by the Sac Bee’s Lara Korte.  TRANSPORTATION TIME: Twenty-four California nonprofits, local governments, transit agencies and Native American tribes in under-resourced communities were awarded up to $50,000 each by the Clean Mobility Options Voucher Pilot Program to help them to identify and eventually address transportation challenges faced by residents in their communities. See the list of awardees and project locations.  — “Scars, Tattoos, And License Plates: This Is What Palantir And The LAPD Know About You,” by BuzzFeed’s Caroline Haskins: “At great taxpayer expense, and without public oversight or regulation, Palantir helped the LAPD construct a vast database that indiscriminately lists the names, addresses, phone numbers, license plates, friendships, romances, jobs of Angelenos — the guilty, innocent, and those in between.”  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — “Elon Musk says he won't get a coronavirus vaccine when it's ready,” by the Hill’s Anagha Srikanth.  — “Tesla (TSLA) secures massive order of Tesla Semi electric trucks from Walmart,” by Electrek’s Fred Lambert.  CANNABIS COUNTRY  PICKING UP THE PIECES — “Cannabis industry looks to regroup after volatile end of legislative session,” by POLITICO’s Alexander Nieves: “Over the final days of a chaotic legislative session, a fierce fight broke out between industry players over a pair of seemingly uncontroversial bills, one designed to protect banks that work with marijuana businesses and another that would have established regulations for the hemp industry.”  MIXTAPE  — “Palmdale Man to Be Arraigned in Drug Case Involving Two Active-Duty Marines,” via City News Service.  — “Bid to fix partying on S.F.’s Twin Peaks just moves the problem around, angering neighbors,” by the SF Chronicle’s Heather Knight.  — “USC admits largest, most diverse freshman class despite coronavirus setbacks,” by the LA Times’ Laura Newberry.  — “Family, advocates mourn San Diego federal inmate who died of COVID-19,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Alex Riggins.  — “Yosemite National Park to drop day-use reservations Nov. 1,” by the Mercury News’ Paul Rogers.  MEDIA MATTERS  — CONGRATS to POLITICO CA Playbook’s Mackenzie Hawkins, just elected editor-in-chief of the Yale Daily News!  BIRTHDAYS  Belated birthday greetings to Sacramento policy and PR guru and former Schwarzenegger insider Cassandra Pye, who celebrated Tuesday … Wednesday: Nate Tibbits, SVP of global government affairs and public affairs at Qualcomm … Rachel Trello of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation.  IN MEMORIAM  Former Fresno County Supervisor and state Assemblymember Bruce Bronzan is remembered by Tom Bohigian on Facebook.  EVENTS  A 2020 ELECTION PREVIEW: Tuesday, Oct. 6, 11 a.m. to noon — The Public Policy Institute of California hosts a discussion on the critical issues and media coverage in the 2020 election. Panelists: NPR’s Tamara Keith, The New York Times’ Jennifer Medina, KQED’s Priya David Clemens and FiveThirtyEight’s Perry Bacon, moderated by POLITICO’s Carla Marinucci.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca  Follow Us Presidential debate: CHAOS in CLEVELAND — ICE to launch targeted arrest campaign in CA — Covid-19 effects: DISNEY to lay off 28K — SCHWARZENEGGER funds voter ‘super centers’ — NEWSOM’s deadline: Sign or veto