The warnings from the right about the potentially existential stakes of 2020 often inveigh against Republican pundits critical of Trump, yet never get around to urging any correction on the president’s part. Indeed, even as Trump, too, talks in the direst tones about the consequences of a Biden victory, he doesn’t seem to have absorbed the message.  If the existence of the country itself is on the ballot in November, why not prepare better for the debates? Why not use Twitter exclusively for messages that advance his cause rather than detract from them? Why waste any time on petty animosities and distractions? Why not write down a health care plan and a Covid-19 plan to blunt Biden’s most potent issues?  Why not, in short, do at least a few things that are uncomfortable or un-natural in the cause of, you know, saving the country from imminent political destruction?  Of course, by this point, even asking the questions seem naive, although there were times in 2016 when Trump modulated his behavior enough to make a difference.  Prior to the first Trump-Biden debate, Ryan Lizza wrote a compelling piece for Politico looking back at the 2016 Trump-Hillary clashes and making the case that Trump was relatively disciplined and kept coming back to his central themes.  Last week’s debate last week was different. No doubt, Trump came in with a theory of the case—he wanted to steamroll Biden and make him crack. Nonetheless, the president gave in to his anger and contempt for Biden, and blew himself up in the course of trying to demolish the former Vice President. If Biden was calculatedly evasive and canned, Trump was profligate and underprepared—the way he almost always is.  As my colleague, Ramesh Ponnuru points out, in 2016 Trump fastened on issues that voters cared about more than the political elite did—trade and deindustrialization, immigration, and PC.  This time, he’s devoting inordinate time to matters that obsess him, not the average voter.  The sources of the Russia investigation should, as a matter of basic accountability, be established and disclosed. But no one who is not already a Trump voter cares about dubious investigatory decisions from four years ago.  Nor is anyone as exercised as the president about unfair things that might be said about him on cable TV programs.  Trump has waged a low-intensity campaign against masks, for no good reason. If masks and their more zealous advocates are annoying, they are also a low-cost, relatively easy intervention to diminish spread of the virus, and a popular one. By setting himself against masks, largely on aesthetic grounds, Trump further opened himself up to charges that he doesn’t take the virus seriously. Now, that case against him has even more political salience with his own illness and the White House outbreak.  Consider, on the other side of the ledger, how the economy is the top issue in the election and how Trump, by and large, leads on it. Still, there has been no sustained case that Biden’s program, including the largest tax increase in more than half a century, will hamper investment and growth. On what should be his foremost advantage, Trump has taken the famous James Carville adage and turned it on its head, “It’s everything else, stupid.”  If the time eventually comes for recriminations after a defeat in November (not a certainty, even at this late date), Trump’s hard-core supporters will have plenty of places to point—to a once-in-a-century pandemic, to an overwhelmingly hostile media, and to a poorly predicated special counsel investigation that ate up time and political capital, among other things.  Be all of that as it may, Trump won’t have been stabbed in the back; he will have committed a form of political hara-kiri because he found it easier and more enjoyable than exercising a modicum of self-discipline.  If Trump loses, the story isn’t going to be what was done to him, rather what he did to himself. Does Trump Actually Want to Win This Election?