Cuomo’s book debuts — Shutdowns proceed as courts reject challenges — Small town Democrat seeks to survive Presented by Uber  Curl up with your cat and some Earl Grey. We can now all relive the past six months through the eyes of Gov. Andrew Cuomo, if that’s your particular cup of tea. (Looking at you, Cuomo Stan social media accounts.)  The governor made the rounds over the long weekend for the second volume he’s written while in office, “American Crisis: Leadership Lessons from the Covid-19 Pandemic,” which is being officially released today. It’s largely a compilation of more than one hundred days of regular briefings this year and another hundred of intermittent addresses. He’s thrown in some gems, such the time he left a bottle of branded NYS Clean hand sanitizer on President Donald Trump’s desk after a meeting in the Oval Office this spring.  The book’s release, just three weeks from Election Day, has earned criticism that Cuomo is taking a “victory lap” while New York is seeing rising infection rates in certain neighborhoods . And it’s accompanied by a sweeping New Yorker profile where some describe his “leadership lessons” as more closely resembling exercises in tyranny.  Cuomo's book has also reignited talk of his future, particularly if longtime ally Joe Biden were to clinch the presidency next month.  To the first critique, Cuomo told CBS during an interview with his daughters on Sunday a version of his standard line — the book is a roadmap for fending off the coronavirus’s continued advances rather than a braggart’s account of success: “There’s no victory here, the game isn’t over... Let’s learn the lesson from the first half of the game and play a better second half.”  To the chatter about his stepping stones — and rumors that he could be in talks for the U.S. attorney general spot — Cuomo told NBC’s “Today” show that he would help Biden in any way he can, but he has “no interest in going to Washington ." The rumors “are only from people who want to get me out of New York. I don’t know why, but that’s where that’s coming from.”  But Michaela Kennedy-Cuomo, during the CBS interview, did not indicate that talks of Cuomo going to Washington were entirely absent from the dinner table: “I like Dad being in New York. He really likes it here. But, as someone who wishes that I had someone I could vote for who would be more inspiring and someone who seems more competent... if that were Dad, I'd be a really grateful and proud American. And, I guess, a busier daughter."  IT’S TUESDAY. Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected] , or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? In Albany with no public events scheduled.  WHERE’S BILL? Holding a media availability and speaking at the New York Building Congress’ Virtual Construction Outlook Week Breakfast.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “He’s inclined toward tyranny. But in a crisis that’s what people want.” — A Democratic legislator quoted in The New Yorker’s new Cuomo profile  ABOVE THE FOLD: “GOV. ANDREW M. CUOMO had barely finished a fairly routine coronavirus briefing earlier this month when he got word that the New York City mayor, Bill de Blasio, had just blindsided him. The mayor unexpectedly announced that he intended to close down schools and nonessential businesses in parts of Brooklyn and Queens, where the coronavirus was surging in communities with large Orthodox Jewish populations. Mr. de Blasio asserted that he had been in contact with the state, whose approval was needed. It took less than 24 hours for Mr. Cuomo to fire back . He halted the mayor’s plan to shutter businesses, calling it imprecise and incomplete, and sped up the closure of schools. By the next day, the governor unveiled his own plan: another phased-in lockdown, complete with color-coded maps and a barely veiled message for Mr. de Blasio.” New York Times’ Jesse McKinley, Luis Ferré-Sadurní, Dana Rubinstein and Joseph Goldstein  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  “A FEDERAL JUDGE on Friday allowed Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to move forward with new restrictions on gatherings at synagogues and other houses of worship, finding that the rules did not violate the free exercise of religion for Orthodox Jews. The ruling in federal court in Brooklyn came after Agudath Israel of America, a national Orthodox Jewish organization, sued Mr. Cuomo this week over his latest executive order detailing an array of new restrictions to address rising coronavirus cases in neighborhoods with large populations of Orthodox Jews....The Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn filed a similar lawsuit against Mr. Cuomo, arguing that the restrictions would effectively force at least two dozen churches in Brooklyn and Queens to close. After a separate hearing on Friday, a different judge also declined to block the executive order.” New York Times’ Nicole Hong and Liam Stack  — “New York authorities have dished out over $150,000 in penalties since Friday in the city’s new coronavirus hot zones, including five fines for religious gatherings, according to officials. Some 62 fines have been dispensed under the new crackdown in Brooklyn and Queens, according to a Sunday afternoon post on the city’s official Twitter account. The six-figure sum represents a different approach compared to a recent, far more anemic stab at enforcement by the city. City sources noted that five of the fines — for the maximum allowable penalty of $15,000 a piece — were issued to the organizers of Orthodox religious gatherings in Borough Park, Brooklyn that each drew hundreds of people.” New York Post’s Joe Marino and Aaron Feis  — “Hundreds of ultra-Orthodox congregants attended an indoor prayer service in Borough Park on Friday in open defiance of Governor Andrew Cuomo newly imposed restrictions on religious gatherings in COVID hotspots. The service was led by a prominent rabbi who tested positive for coronavirus one week ago, multiple sources told Gothamist.” Gothamist’s Jake Offenhartz  “POLICE ARRESTED radio personality and anti-masker Heshy Tischler outside his Borough Park home on Sunday for allegedly instigating an attack on an Orthodox journalist. Citing his role in egging on a group of ultra-Orthodox Jews in an attack of a Hasidic journalist on Oct. 7, cops charged Tischler with inciting a riot and unlawful imprisonment, according to police. The 56-year-old vocal coronavirus denier organized two demonstrations in Borough Park on Oct. 6 and Oct. 7 against Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s new COVID-19 regulations. The new rules, which went into effect last week, closed schools and limited religious gatherings to 10 people in New York City coronavirus hotspots... A large crowd egged on by Tischler chased down and attacked well-known Orthodox journalist Jacob Kornbluh, a veteran reporter for Jewish Insider who has written about attempts to flout social distancing guidelines in Borough Park.” Brooklyn Paper’s Rose Adams  — The protest organizer was released Monday night and ordered to stay away from Kornbluh. A group of protesters demonstrated outside the journalist’s home after the arrest.  “THE NUMBER OF people held in New York City jails has dropped steadily under Mayor Bill de Blasio, and it continued to fall this year as the city emptied out its jails to curb the spread of the coronavirus. But there is one number at Rikers Island and the city’s other jails that has held constant in the last three years, despite the mayor’s strenuous efforts to reduce it: the tally of people in solitary confinement. Even as the jail population dropped, correction officials have relied on solitary confinement to punish about the same number of inmates each year since 2017, records show. And that trend continued in the first six months of this year as the jails released hundreds of people because of the pandemic.” New York Times’ Jan Ransom  “BROADWAY THEATERS will remain dark through May 30, 2021, because of the coronavirus pandemic, the industry’s trade group said Friday. ‘Our membership is committed to reopening as soon as conditions permit us to do so,’ said Broadway League President Charlotte St. Martin. The theaters clustered in the heart of New York City closed on March 12, at the onset of the pandemic. It was expected initially that they would be able to welcome patrons back within weeks, but the League said over the summer that the shutdown would continue through early January.” Wall Street Journal’s Charles Passy  — Some smaller theaters want to resume performances sooner, saying they are better set up to allow socially distanced seating.      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  THE LEFTWARD turn in New York’s suburbs, which enabled Democrats to win a historic majority in the state Senate in 2018, has dominated discussions among political observers in the last few years. But another trend, which has gone unnoticed, also helped remake the Legislature in 2018 . Republicans managed to oust three incumbents that year, and these three had something in common: Each represented a district where there were more registered Republicans than Democrats. That left Assemblymember Carrie Woerner, who has represented a district that includes Saratoga Springs and 14 mostly rural towns for three terms, as the only one of the 147 Democrats in the 213-member Legislature to represent a district with a Republican plurality.  And this year, Woerner is facing arguably the most aggressive challenge of any member of the Assembly as she runs against Dave Catalfamo. That race, coupled with the results from 2018 and the election cycles preceding it, raises some important questions. Democratic politics in New York have always been grounded in New York City, but Democrats from rural and Republican parts of the state — from Sen. Franklin Roosevelt, who helped lead the opposition to Tammany from 1911 to 1913, to Sen. Darrel Aubertine, who effectively had veto over power over how far to the left the majority of 2009 and 2010 could go — have usually played an outsized role relative to their numbers. But in an era of significant polarization, is this sort of Democrat an endangered species? And if so, will rural voters lose their voice in Albany if nearly all of their representatives are from a party that seems likely to remain a powerless minority in the years to come? POLITICO’s Bill Mahoney  “AS PART of a sweeping overhaul of the bail system aimed at reducing pretrial incarceration, the state legislature mandated in 2019 that judges setting traditional bail must also offer one of two alternative forms of bail designed to be affordable for low-income defendants. But since the mandate took effect Jan. 1, judges across New York have seldom used one of these bail forms, ‘unsecured bonds,’ and have set the other, [Partially Secured Bond], at dramatically higher rates than traditional bail. By setting PSBs at rates unaffordable for many defendants, criminal justice advocates and public defenders say, judges, who have complete discretion, have in effect nullified a program instituted by the legislature to free more poor people from jail. ‘The battle for bail reform isn’t over, and right now, combatting PSB abuse is the front line,’ said Martin Kaminer, founder of the Emergency Relief Fund, a bail fund that has been working on this issue.” New York Focus’s Akash Mehta  “SANDRA LEE has struck a deal to sell the New Castle home called Lily Pond that she shares with her ex-boyfriend, Gov. Andrew Cuomo, for $1.85 million. Real estate broker Greg Schriefer, of Sotheby’s International in Manhattan, confirmed Monday that the governor’s residence for the past 11 years is in contract, with a closing date still to be set … The potential sale reveals inequities in New York state’s broken property tax system, which Cuomo has shown little appetite to fix. The sale would be 39% more than its taxable value.” Journal News’ David McKay Wilson  IT’S AMAZON PRIME DAY and a coalition of retailers, manufacturers and consumer groups wants state Attorney General Tish James to step up enforcement on the organized rings using third-party marketplaces to build a business selling merchandise stolen from local retailers.  #UpstateAmerica: Fall isn’t free from public health scrutiny this year. The Great Pumpkin farm in Erie County received violations for a lack of social distancing.  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      TRUMP'S NEW YORK  “THE COPS KNOCKING on the door of an Inwood man’s apartment before dawn weren’t cops at all. They were instead U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents who duped family members into helping them arrest the clan’s patriarch, now behind bars and facing deportation, his devastated relatives and city officials said Saturday. ‘This is a violation of our law,’ said Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams, an ex-city police officer, about the duplicitous Thursday bust of Fernando Santos-Rodriguez. ‘You cannot state that you are a municipal police official. You cannot violate the law to carry out the law.’ After getting information from his relatives, ICE agents arrested Santos-Rodriguez, 48, as he arrived at his morning shift as a Harlem restaurant chef.” New York Daily News’ Ellen Moynihan and Larry McShane  — De Blasio sent a letter to ICE demanding their agents stop pretending to be NYPD police, saying he has received numerous reports of agents falsely claiming to be local cops.  “TREASURY SECRETARY Steve Mnuchin has a message for ailing 9/11 city firefighters whose funding his agency has withheld: we’re not giving your money back — go ask NYC. For years, the U.S. Treasury Department has withheld nearly $4 million from the FDNY’s World Trade Center Health Program to satisfy still-unexplained debts that other, unrelated city agencies have with the feds. Mnuchin sent a letter to Mayor De Blasio on Thursday saying that the city should make up the shortfall. And if the city doesn’t pay up, Mnuchin threatened to take other federal healthcare funding meant for New York, and give that to the fire department instead.” New York Daily News’ Michael McAuliff  ... 2020 VISION ...  “THE CANDIDATES FOR Congress in New York City’s only swing district are slugging it out in campaign ads that direct much of their fury at a man who isn’t on the ballot — Mayor Bill de Blasio. ‘Bill de Blasio is the worst mayor in the history of New York City,’ first-term Congress member Max Rose says of his fellow Democrat in a Sept. 9 digital ad. ‘Everybody knows Bill de Blasio is the country’s most radical mayor,’ Republican challenger Nicole Malliotakis counters in a Sept. 22 TV ad. The second-term mayor and onetime Democratic presidential hopeful is deeply unpopular in New York’s 11th Congressional District, which includes the borough of Staten Island plus part of Brooklyn.” Associated Press’s Karen Matthews  “CALLS ARE growing for the city to take action against the upstate firm that sent flawed absentee ballots to voters across Brooklyn at a time when President Donald Trump is falsely attacking mail-in voting as fraud-ridden. One elected official wants the company fired, while a second is demanding that the city Board of Elections — which awarded Phoenix Graphics a $4.6 million no-bid contract — retrieve the money paid to the vendor. And Public Advocate Jumaane Williams mostly wants New Yorkers to know their votes will count — and not let the debacle add to the mistrust in the system Trump is encouraging with baseless claims as the Nov. 3 election approaches.” The City’s Greg B. Smith      AROUND NEW YORK  — The number of people being hospitalized for Covid-19 has increased 73 percent over the past month.  — Cuomo unveiled a new statue of Mother Cabrini in Battery Park, a year after he promised to build one when de Blasio’s statue commission initially snubbed her.    — City Council Member Carlos Menchaca in Brooklyn formed a campaign committee to explore a run for mayor.  — The 1980 Olympic bobsled track at the Lake Placid Olympic Sites is now the longest mountain coaster in America.  — The racial climate at SUNY Brockport is evolving but the campus culture remains a work in progress , campus officials said.  — Oyster Bay has proposed a budget that would increase spending to the highest level since 2016.  — Avoid these mail-in voting mistakes!  — The Grand Central Oyster Bar closed again less than two weeks after reopening, citing worse than expected business.  — The shuttered Regal movie theater in Times Square is displaying a message hitting Cuomo for his decision to keep cinemas in the state closed.  — An arbitrator said the city must pay the $900 million in back wages it attempted to withhold from teachers, half this month and half next fiscal year.  — Violent crime and episodes of vandalism are rising on the subway.  — A Staten Island restaurant anchored by a rotating cast of grandmas is selling its sauces in jars while the eatery remains closed.  — A Bronx man now owes $32,000 after the state claimed he improperly received Medicaid benefits over the past five years.  — The Town of Babylon is searching for a new location and uses for its incinerated garbage as it prepares to close one of its two ash landfills.  SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) is 31 … Tiffany Trump is 27 … Harris Faulkner, Fox News anchor … Esta Gordon Epstein ... Doug Emhoff is 56 … Ari Fleischer is 6-0 … Nedra Pickler … Michael Tomasky is 6-0 …Edelman’s Michael Newell … Lilian Lin Yigu … Rebecca Shabad … Rick Davis, EVP of news standards and practices at CNN, is 68 … Christopher Colford … Glover Park Group’s Jack Krumholtz …  … (was Monday): “Fox News Sunday” anchor Chris Wallace turned 73 … Lara Trump turned 38 … NYT’s Michael Barbaro turned 41 … Chris Coffey, head of the New York practice for Tusk Strategies and Tusk Ventures … Bloomberg’s Anna Edney … WSJ’s Gary Rosen … Jorge Guajardo, senior director at McLarty Associates … Kate Nocera … BuzzFeed’s Rosie Gray … Lewis Eisenberg ... Raanan Agus … former U.S. Treasurer Anna Escobedo Cabral, now at the Inter-American Development Bank … NPR’s Jack Speer … Lauren Blanchard, national correspondent at Fox News, turned 31 … Jamie Hennigan, VP of comms at the National Association of Manufacturers … Zack Gober …  … (was Sunday): USTR Robert Lighthizer turned 73 … Bruce Bartlett turned 69 … Tishman Speyer President and CEO Rob Speyer … Jamie Weinstein, host of the “Jamie Weinstein Show” podcast and founding partner of JMW Strategies, turned 37 … WSJ’s Tarini Parti … Ron Prosor turned 62 … Shari L. Aronson ...  … (was Saturday): Raj Shah, SVP at Fox Corp. … Christina Henderson, legislative assistant for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and D.C. Council candidate … Michael Borden, a partner at Sidley Austin … Deloitte’s Shrupti Shah and Chrissie Del Tatto … Laurence Tribe, Carl M. Loeb professor at Harvard Law School, turned 79 … Matti Friedman, NYT contributing opinion writer, turned 43 ... Guillermo Meneses … Stanley Kay … POLITICO’s Clea Benson … Bruce Karsh … Avi Davidoff … Stefan Sambol … Zack Nacheman  MEDIAWATCH — NYT’S BEN SMITH: “An Arrest in Canada Casts a Shadow on a New York Times Star, and The Times”  — Peter Beinart has joined the NYT as a contributing opinion writer. He was previously at The Atlantic. … Sean Duffy, a former GOP representative from Wisconsin, is now a Fox News contributor. (h/t POLITICO Playbook) … Robert George will join the Bloomberg Opinion editorial board, departing the New York Daily News editorial board.  WEEKEND WEDDING — Samuel Bart to Michelle Krozy — NYT’s Rosalie R. Radomsky: “Mr. Bart, 31 … is the finance director and the digital coordinator for Senator Chuck Schumer’s campaign office, Friends of Schumer, in Manhattan. Mr. Bart graduated from the George Washington University. Ms. Krozy, 29 … is an associate in Manhattan at Alston & Bird, an Atlanta-based law firm. She graduated cum laude from Franklin and Marshall College and received a law degree cum laude from the Benjamin N. Cardozo Law School.” With a pic  IN MEMORIAM — “Joyce Dinkins, the dignified, quick-witted wife of New York City’s first Black mayor, David Dinkins, died Sunday , according to her family. She was 89.”      REAL ESTATE  “VICTORIA GRUENERT went through a sudden, ugly breakup this past spring, so she did what many 20-somethings have done before her: She picked up her things and moved to New York City, eager for a fresh start. But the city she had pictured in her head — a high-paced office life, a jam-packed social calendar, the bustling Manhattan she’d seen on TV — was gone. Ms. Gruenert forged ahead, despite reports that scores of spooked residents had skipped town. New York had become a global epicenter of the virus, but new transplants like her were determined to make the city home.” New York Times’ Jazmine Hughes  “SINCE 1924, the Roosevelt Hotel has been a witness to history. The New York City landmark was the election headquarters for Gov. Thomas Dewey when he incorrectly announced he defeated Harry Truman in the 1948 presidential election. It has served as the backdrop for movies such as ‘The Irishman’ and it helped start a New Year's Eve tradition. A fixture of the Manhattan skyline, the hotel boasts elegant architecture and is minutes away from Times Square and Grand Central Terminal. But now, The Roosevelt Hotel will no longer bear witness to motion pictures or moments in history. The hotel will permanently close its doors this year, a spokesperson told CNN in a statement.” CNN’s Simret Aklilu    Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold Cuomo’s book debuts — Shutdowns proceed as courts reject challenges — Small town Democrat seeks to survive