AFFIRMATIVE ACTION in trouble, SPLIT ROLL close — NEWSOM says CA won’t block Pac-12 — CCPOA pulls JONES-SAWYER hit — new SACRAMENTO INFLUENCE superteam Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ — Two generational voter do-overs are on the 2020 ballot — and despite a fresh electorate, passing both is going to be a battle.  An affirmative action reinstatement (Proposition 16) and a “split roll” initiative to raise commercial property taxes (Prop 15) will go before voters in November. Both offer a chance to alter previous landmark voter-passed initiatives: Prop 16 would unravel Prop 209, the 1996 ban on race-based admissions and hiring for public institutions, while Prop 15 would relax the tax-limiting framework of Prop 13, the 1978 tax revolt measure that’s since become sacrosanct to big business and homeowners. But Prop 16 is in rough shape, and Prop 15 is in for a fight.  AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: A resurgent racial justice movement propelled affirmative action out of the Legislature and onto the ballot — but voters are going to be harder to convince than legislators. A new Public Policy Institute of California poll finds that Prop 16 is deeply underwater, with just 31 percent of likely voters saying they’d back it and 47 percent opposing it. There’s still a potential margin of victory in the 22 percent who said they had no opinion.  The cash advantage clearly rests with proponents: The ‘Yes on 16’ side has collected nearly $11 million, including from heavy hitters like Kaiser, the California Teachers Association and both legislative leaders, while the ‘No on 16’ side has generated about $180,000 – barely enough to buy some mailers, much less statewide TV time. But despite that monetary advantage, the numbers point to an uphill climb for proponents.  "I Voted" stickers distributed on Super Tuesday in El Segundo, Calif., March 3, 2020. | AP Photo/Ringo H.W. Chiu  SPLIT ROLL: Progressives have long yearned to amend Prop 13 to generate more revenue, and a labor-backed coalition hoped high liberal turnout would make 2020 the year. PPIC found a slim one-point majority is now in favor of Prop 15, with 51 percent of likely voters saying they’d back it and 40 percent against it; that’s a decline from the 53 percent of voters who backed it in PPIC’s April tally, although the 11-point margin represents an increase of 5 points. And voters are invested in the outcome of this fight, with a vast majority calling the outcome important and nearly half dubbing it “very important.”  Campaigns still have six weeks to shape public opinion, and you can count on a dueling barrage of Prop 15 ads from well-funded supporters (who will say schools and cities need the money more than ever during a recession) and opponents (who will say an economic recovery is the worst time to burden businesses). Both are prepared to spend what it takes, although we may not see many first-term House Democrats backing the measure: Across eight competitive House districts, voters oppose Prop 15 by a two-to-one-margin, although PPIC includes the still-conservative CA-4 (12-point GOP edge) and CA-50 (10-point GOP edge) but not the recently flipped CA-49.  DATA POINTS: Gov. Gavin Newsom is sitting pretty with 60 percent approval from likely voters and 62 percent approval for his coronavirus handling. Those numbers put him in a commanding position as he navigates the politically treacherous balance between controlling the virus and reviving the state’s ailing economy, and Californian voters trust him far more than President Donald Trump, whose Covid-19 course they disapprove of by 35 points. But Californians are wary of what comes next: Voters are evenly split on whether we’re headed in the right or wrong direction.  And while Joe Biden is trouncing Trump statewide by 30 points, the president has a three-point edge (50 to 47) in those competitive CDs, where Republicans also drew a net lead of 12 points over Democrats (see caveats about districts above). And as Trump baselessly accuses California of voter fraud, Republican voters are wary of the vote’s integrity, with a third saying they have “very little” confidence.  BUENOS DÍAS, good Thursday morning. Increasingly devastating wildfires aren’t just taking a toll on lives and homes — they’re also putting California’s utilities in a more precarious financial position, with Wall Street souring on major energy providers.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “We need to reconcile the fact there are no Democratic thermometers and no Republican thermometers.” Gov. Gavin Newsom on the nonpartisan climate fight.  TWEET OF THE DAY: Reporter Evan Sernoffsky @EvanSernoffsky greets a long-missing blue sky (although LA remained smoky grey): “You can see it!!! Welcome back Bay Area”  WHERE’S GAVIN? Nothing official announced.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  FOOTBALL FIGHT — “Newsom insists California is not Pac-12 roadblock,” by POLITICO’s Jeremy B. White: “College football is big business and has become a major flashpoint in a national struggle over coronavirus restrictions. While Newsom did not actively call for games to commence, he also did not come out against athletes returning to the field. … Football players at the University of Southern California, a perennial juggernaut, had written Newsom lamenting excessive ‘restrictions imposed by state and local health officials in California that prevent us from resuming practices and competitions.’”  — “Sheriff’s combative response to shocking deputy attack sparks new alarms, criticism,” by the LA Times’ Alene Tchekmedyian: “Within 24 hours, a longtime Sheriff’s Department spokeswoman posted tweets about the attack that employed racist stereotypes in reference to a reward for information leading to the arrest of the shooter.”  BOAT FIRE — “A ‘pop,’ a ‘crackle,’ then ‘fire!’: NTSB records show dramatic moments as flames swept Conception dive boat,” by the LA Times’ Kim Christensen and Richard Winton.  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  — “Streak of 30 straight Spare the Air days in Bay Area will end Thursday,” by the Mercury News’ Rick Hurd.  — “‘No end in sight’: California firefighters battle exhaustion, heat and pandemic in historic wildfire season,” by the SF Chronicle’s Mallory Moench: “As of Tuesday, Silvera had worked 37 days straight in the CZU Lightning Complex fires in Santa Cruz County. That included one of the most harrowing experiences of his career, when an inferno in Big Basin Redwoods State Park trapped his crew overnight during a 68-hour shift.”  — “In California town lost to fire, this market was lifeline. Can Berry Creek recover?” by the LA Times’ Ruben Vives: “For residents, the store was a lifeline and a community gathering spot, especially after the 2018 fire disaster in nearby Paradise, when the Village Market was one of the few stores that stayed open.”  — “The Racist Removal Of Native Americans In California Is Often Missing From Wildfire Discussions, Experts Say,” by Capital Public Radio’s Ezra David Romero.  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  — “25 lawmakers call on Newsom to address playground reopening,” by POLITICO’s Mackenzie Mays: “In a letter to the governor, 25 legislators, including Assemblymember Lorena Gonzalez (D-San Diego) and Sen. Melissa Melendez (R-Lake Elsinore), called for additional state guidance for when and how counties can open playgrounds and sports amenities in parks amid coronavirus regulations that have shuttered most operations.”  — "Californians support COVID-19 restrictions and remain worried about outbreak, survey shows," by the Sac Bee's Lara Korte.  — “How close is the Bay Area to reopening? Here’s what the real-time data says,” by the Mercury News’ Evan Webeck.  COVID-19 ON CAMPUS — “San Diego County headed to more-restrictive tier because of SDSU cases,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Paul Sisson, Gary Warth and Gary Robbins: “Local officials say they are scrambling to do what they can to avoid a second week with a case rate over 7.0, which would move the county into the most restrictive tier. Such a regression would force restaurants, churches, movie theaters, museums and gyms to cease indoor activity.”  TEST OR PAY — “Santa Clara County threatens health care providers with fines over coronavirus testing,” by the Mercury News’ Fiona Kelliher.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  — “Trump admin unveils plan for distributing coronavirus vaccines,” by POLITICO’s Rachel Roubein and Sarah Owermohle: “The strategy, outlined in a report to Congress and a 57-page playbook to states, comes as 6 in 10 adults are worried the FDA will rush to approve a vaccine due to political pressure, according to a recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll.”  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  — “Harris draws on her past as US faces reckoning on police,” by the AP’s Kathleen Ronayne: “Harris sometimes struggled to navigate her complicated relationship with police when she sought the Democratic presidential nomination last year. Law enforcement leaders never fully embraced her, and some progressives also viewed her warily.”  HARRIS' HERITAGE — “Trump spent years trying to win over Indian Americans. Then Biden picked Harris.” by POLITICO’s Anita Kumar: “Within days, Harris was speaking to Indian Americans on India’s Independence Day about her grandfather, who helped push for India’s liberation. Then she was boosting the campaign’s launch of a new Indian coalition. And last week, Biden supporters released a video with a song remix from the popular Bollywood movie ‘Lagaan’ about an Indian village fighting British rule.”  — “'Won't Stand for It': Women of Color Prepare for Biased Attacks on Kamala Harris,” by KQED’s Scott Shafer.  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  CAMPAIGN MODE  CCPOA CONTROVERSY — “CCPOA removes video with crosshairs over Assemblymember's face,” by POLITICO’s Jeremy B. White: “As chair of the Assembly Public Safety Committee and one of Sacramento’s more liberal lawmakers, [Reggie] Jones-Sawyer has championed various criminal justice proposals that have generated fierce opposition from law enforcement organizations. Jones-Sawyer is trying to fend off a spirited intraparty challenge from Efren Martinez, who outpolled Jones-Sawyer in the primary by more than five points.”  LA TIMES BACKS MITCHELL — “Holly Mitchell for Los Angeles County supervisor,” via the LA Times editorial board.  AGAINST AFFIRMATIVE ACTION — “Commentary: Why you should vote no on Prop. 16 and reject racial preferences in California,” by Frank Xu in the San Diego Union-Tribune: “Proponents of Proposition 16 couch their support for the measure by using words like ‘diversity’ and ‘representation.’ What they are really advocating is that the government treat its citizens differently based on immutable characteristics.”  END CASH BAIL? — “California’s cash bail system favors the rich. Would replacing it help people of color?” by the Sac Bee’s Nadia Lopez.  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK: INFLUENCE SUPERTEAM — Some of California’s premiere political hands are teaming up with a novel new arrangement where clients can choose from within an allied group of political pros. The Collaborative’s architects are Dana Williamson of Grace Public Affairs, Greg Campbell of Campbell Strategy & Advocacy, Jim DeBoo of DeBoo Communications and Brandon Hernandez of Reforma Strategies; Alexis Podesta of the Podesta Company will serve as managing director of the Collaborative, which will also enlist Sean Clegg and Juan Rodriguez of SCRB Strategies, and Chris Modrzejewski and Shannon Murphy of M Strategic Communications, and EMJ Public Affairs.  WALL STREET ON UTILITIES — “S&P downgrades outlooks for California's investor-owned utilities,” by POLITICO’s Colby Bermel: “The move by S&P Global Ratings came before another 2.5 months of expected intense conditions that could make it easier for electrical equipment to spark a disastrous wildfire.”  — "State watchdog investigating Assemblyman Kansen Chu’s campaign spending," by the Mercury News' Joseph Geha.  — “'The difference is QAnon': how a conspiratorial hate campaign upended California politics,” by the Guardian’s Julia Carrie Wong: “In some ways, what happened with SB145 is a local story about the politics involved in updating California’s outdated legal codes. But it also serves as a cautionary tale for the future of political debates in the US as the QAnon conspiracy movement grows and Republican party leaders do little or nothing to stop it.”  STOCKTON LEADS — “Mayors vow to launch guaranteed income programs across US,” by the AP’s Adam Beam: “Mayors in at least 25 cities — from Los Angeles to Paterson, New Jersey — have pledged to support such programs as part of the group Mayors for a Guaranteed Income. They are led by Michael Tubbs, the 30-year-old mayor of Stockton, California, who launched one of the country’s first guaranteed income programs last year with the help of private donations from Silicon Valley.”  — “Accusations of political ‘money laundering’ under investigation in Oakland,” by The Oaklandside’s Darwin BondGraham: “Multiple members of the City Council received campaign contributions allegedly linked to a contractor seeking a favorable legal decision and a land deal.”  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — “Safety driver charged in 2018 incident where self-driving Uber car killed a woman,” by The Guardian’s Sam Levin.  — “NYT, Facebook launch multi-year augmented reality reporting project,” by Axios’ Sara Fischer.  FACEBOOK UNDER FIRE — “Celebs join Instagram ‘freeze’ to protest Facebook inaction,” by the AP’s Kelvin Chan.  — “Stimulus Checks Should Come With 10 N95 Masks, Says Salesforce CEO,” by Forbes’ Shahar Ziv.  HOLLYWOODLAND  — “Surviving abuse bonded Paris Hilton and these four women for life,” by the LA Times’ Amy Kaufman: “During her 11 months at the school — one of five she attended as a teen — she said she was prescribed unknown pills that made her “tired and numb,” beaten by staff members and thrown into a cold solitary confinement chamber for nearly 20 hours.”  — “Caitlyn Jenner slams Joe Rogan for transphobic rant that bashed the Kardashians,” by the LA Times’ Nardine Saad.  CANNABIS COUNTRY  — “California marijuana tax revenues stall in wake of pandemic, job losses,” by Marijuana Business Daily’s Andrew Long.  MEDIA MATTERS  — “Wherever there’s a fight for California’s future, this Mexican nerd will be there,” by the LA Times’ Gustavo Arellano: “Throughout my 20-year journalism career, I’ve navigated a gantlet of editors and readers who tried to pigeonhole and tokenize me as they had too many Latino reporters past and present. Instead, I tokenized myself.”  — "Ben Shapiro's Daily Wire leaving California: 'Terrible governance has consequences'." by the Hill's Joe Concha.  MIXTAPE  — “Ransomware attack hits Newhall schools, halting online classes,” by the LA Times’ Andrew J. Campa.  — “Muni getting new rider-information system at $89 million, while ancient, floppy-disk computers route trains,” by the SF Chronicle’s Phil Matier.  — “Immigrants Win Back Stolen Wages, But Few May Report Violations During Pandemic,” by KQED’s Farida Jhabvala Romero.  — “California man sues Starbucks over tea scalding, says it led to ‘disfigurement’ of genitals,” by the Sac Bee’s Sam Stanton.  — “Five-alarm fire burning in Oakland; officials believe dumpster fire spread to two-story building,” by the East Bay Times’ Harry Harris and David DeBolt.  — “ACLU sues Palo Alto over residents-only park,” by the SF Chronicle’s Michael Cabanatuan.  — “Kamala Harris Wore Timberlands. The Internet Responded,” by the Daily Beast’s Alaina Demopoulos.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca  Follow Us AFFIRMATIVE ACTION in trouble, SPLIT ROLL close — NEWSOM says CA won’t block Pac-12 — CCPOA pulls JONES-SAWYER hit — new SACRAMENTO INFLUENCE superteam