VP DEBATE: Kamala comes out swinging — NEWSOM AIDE tests positive for COVID — ICE arrests 128 in sanctuary city raids — Anonymous ‘former staffer’ hits KATIE HILL on Twitter Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ: It wasn’t a dumpster fire. But it wasn’t a game-changer, either.  Sen. Kamala Harris of California went toe-to-toe with Vice President Mike Pence in a high-stakes debate last night — taking the Trump administration to task for its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, taxes and jobs.  But the historic VP debate — between a black, South Asian woman and a white man — may be remembered more for the dodging and sidestepping of questions from both candidates.  Harris scored points early for effectively going after Trump and Pence on their Covid pandemic response — and may have come away with the toughest lines and hits on that topic, calling it “the greatest failure of a presidential administration in the history of our country.’’  Pence struggled to defend the administration’s Covid response — and completely sidestepped questions on America’s high infection rate and why the White House didn’t observe mandates on masks and social distancing at a recent event in the Rose Garden. His response: “President Trump and I trust the American people to make choices in the best interests of their health.” But he rebounded with hard parries, trying to pin Harris down on court-packing while arguing that she held radical positions on the “Green New Deal,” fracking and trade issues.  Vice President Mike Pence listens as Democratic vice presidential candidate Sen. Kamala Harris speaks during the vice presidential debate Wednesday, Oct. 7, 2020. | Justin Sullivan/Pool via AP  THE BOTTOM LINE: “Covid and Court take center stage at a more normal vice presidential debate,’’ by POLITICO’s David Siders: “Interested viewers could hear what the two candidates were saying. Disinterested viewers could flip the channel to baseball without worrying a bomb was about to go off.” More debate highlights via POLITICO.  CNN POST DEBATE POLL: Who won? 59 percent said Harris, 38 percent Pence.  CALIFORNIA-CENTRIC HIGHLIGHTS:  — Pence, asked about California wildfires and climate change, shouted-out Gov. Gavin Newsom: "The climate is changing. The issue is, what is the cause, and what do we do about it? … With regard to wildfires, we believe forest management has to be front and center. Even Governor Newsom agrees that we need to have better forest management.”  — Harris’ comeback on wildfires: “Joe understands that the West Coast of our country is burning, including my home state of California. And so Joe believes, again, in science. Donald Trump, when asked about the wildfires in California, … you know what Donald Trump said? ‘Science doesn’t know.’”  — Pence criticized Harris for being too tough a prosecutor: “When you were D.A. in San Francisco, when you left office, African Americans were 19 times more likely to be prosecuted for minor drug offenses than whites and Hispanics. When you were attorney general of California, you increased the disproportionate incarceration of Blacks in California. You did nothing on criminal justice reform in California. You didn't lift a finger to pass the First Step Act on Capitol Hill. The reality is, your record speaks for itself.”  — A clearly annoyed Harris came back at him: “Having served as the attorney general of the state of California, the work I did is a model of what our nation needs to do, and will be able to do under a Joe Biden presidency. Our agenda includes what this administration has failed to do. … This is the work that we've done, and the work we will do going forward. And I will not be lectured by the vice president on our record.”  LINE MOST LIKELY TO END UP ON A T-SHIRT, h/t NYT's Jennifer Medina: “He interrupted me and I’d like to finish,’’ and “Mr. Vice President, I’m speaking’’ — both tweeted all night by women who have experienced a “man-splaining” moment, including Assemblymembers Lorena Gonzalez and Buffy Wicks. A similar exchange, via BuzzFeed’s David Mack.  MEME OF THE NIGHT: The fly that landed on Pence’s head. The Biden campaign was ready with a visual joke, a fundraising pitch and Biden/Harris-branded fly swatters.  VIDEO OF THE NIGHT: A supercut of Harris’ facial reactions.  FROM THE TWITTERSPHERE:  — State Sen. @Scott_Wiener: “‘Donald Trump has Jewish grandchildren’ = ‘I have Black friends so I can’t be racist’”  — Trump campaign operative @RichardGrenell: “It’s clear that @KamalaHarris panicked whenever VP Pence talked about her record on Green New Deal, fracking, Criminal Justice Reform and how so many black people went to jail for minor offenses in California when she was AG.”  — Former California first lady @MariaShriver: “Thanks to both of these candidates for tonight. Thank goodness it was civil. Hope it doesn’t become all about the fly or the eye #VPDebate #VPDebate2020”  — San Francisco Supervisor @MattHaneySF: “Kaiser Hospital in Oakland just got a shout out in the Vice Presidential Debate! Yes!’’ (Also noted by SFGATE’s Amy Graff.)  BUENOS DÍAS, good Thursday morning. Attorney General Xavier Becerra and partner agencies hold a press conference today “to announce the results of the campaign against the marijuana planting season.” Details: 11 a.m PT, AG’s Facebook page livestream.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: "I wouldn't go anywhere near the White House. It's one of the most dangerous places in the country, both in terms of the assault that it makes on truth, as well as health." — Speaker Nancy Pelosi on “The View” Wednesday.  TWEET OF THE DAY: Donald J. Trump @realDonaldTrump’s message to a state where recent polls show he lags behind Joe Biden by 31 percent: “Vote TRUMP California. No more blackouts, shutdowns, ridiculous forrest fires, or water ‘rationing’ (coming soon). We can win in California NOW!”  WHERE’S GAVIN? Nothing official announced.  PROGRAMMING NOTE: California Playbook will not publish Monday, Oct. 12. We'll return to our normal schedule on Tuesday, Oct. 13. In the meantime, please continue to follow POLITICO California.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  COVID IN THE CAPITOL — “California governor's aide tests positive for coronavirus,” by POLITICO’s Jeremy B. White: The person had not “come into contact with Newsom or with staffers who regularly interact with the governor. The California Department of Public Health is aiding Newsom's office in tracing the infected individual's contacts.”  HILL NO — “Anonymous ‘former staff’ of Katie Hill slam film adaptation of ex-congresswoman’s book,” by POLITICO’s Quint Forgey: “The posters went on to write in a 10-part Twitter thread that Hill’s story ‘is also one of workplace abuse and harassment.’ Hill ‘can be both a victim and perpetrator,’ they wrote, arguing that she ‘is not a hero for women.’”  CRUSHED HOPES FOR 2020 — “Hard Lives Made Harder by COVID: Homeless Endure a ‘Slow-Moving Train Wreck,’” by California Healthline’s Anna Maria Barry-Jester and Angela Hart: “If the state’s goal was to ward off a deadly COVID-19 outbreak among the homeless, it can claim success. … But suffering comes in other forms. And interviews with dozens of homeless people, activists and local officials in 12 counties reveal a new magnitude of hardship and indignity for California’s homeless — and no easy answers ahead.”  GO A’s — “Oakland A’s keep season alive with thrilling comeback victory,” by the Mercury News’ Shayna Rubin.  AND ELSEWHERE IN BASEBALL — The Dodgers beat the Padres 6-5 Wednesday night, as the LA Times’ Jorge Castillo reports.  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  NO OPENING AT ‘HAPPIEST PLACE’ — “California Gov. Gavin Newsom Says Disneyland & Other Parks Not Opening Soon As He Reveals Disagreement With Disney Chief Bob Iger,” by Deadline’s Tom Tapp. Newsom: “We don’t anticipate in the immediate term any of these larger parks opening until we see more stability in terms of the data. … We feel there’s no hurry to put out guidelines, and we continue to work with the industry.’’  OFF-CAMPUS OUTBREAKS — “Serious COVID-19 outbreaks hit California colleges despite intense preparation,” by the LA Times’ Colleen Shalby: “Unchecked by campus rules and safeguards, these students became fertile ground for the virus, which has spread rapidly on and around several California campuses despite sparsely populated dormitories and classrooms.”  — “Four Bay Area counties fall short of state’s new coronavirus equity metrics, which are needed to advance reopening,” by the SF Chronicle’s Tatiana Sanchez.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  — “The White House is a coronavirus hot spot. But no one can make it do contact tracing," by the LA Times' Emily Baumgaertner: "The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which recommends contact tracing for all coronavirus outbreaks, has teams of experts who could carry it out for the White House. The Trump administration, however, has relegated contact tracing to an internal team of doctors, who reportedly have focused on tracking down those in close proximity to the president between the Sept. 29 debate in Ohio and his positive test for the coronavirus two days later."  — “Trump officials blast California 'sanctuary' laws in detailing arrests,” by POLITICO’s Jeremy B. White: “Trump has regularly decried ‘sanctuary’ policies, singling out California as an example of Democratic lawlessness. His administration has unsuccessfully gone to court to try and dissolve California’s restrictions. Wednesday’s press conference helped bolster that message weeks before the presidential election, although Wolf insisted politics did not play a role.”  — “ICE arrests 128 immigrants in California ‘sanctuary cities,’” by the OC Register’s Roxana Kopetman.  NO FREE LUNCH — “California school districts spurn 'back-patting' Trump food box letter,’’ by POLITICO’s Mackenzie Mays: “The superintendent of the nation’s second largest school district on Wednesday accused President Donald Trump of possibly violating the Hatch Act by inserting a letter in food boxes for distribution at schools and pantries just weeks before Election Day.”  COUNT CONTINUES — “Appeals court stops Trump administration from shutting down census before Oct. 31 deadline,” by the SF Chronicle’s Bob Egelko.  — “Climate Change, Forest Management and Wildfires,” by state Sen. John Moorlach for Fox and Hounds: “For years, Newsom — and Gov. Jerry Brown before him — talked about managing our forests and preventing wildfires, but it’s been more lip service than actual deeds.”  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  — “Second Trump-Biden debate will be virtual, commission announces," by POLITICO's Quint Forgey.  — “Carly Fiorina explains planned Biden vote, claims Trump has 'damaged' GOP,” by Fox News’ Talia Kaplan.  CAMPAIGN MODE  49ERS’ YORK SINKS ANOTHER $300K: As we reported earlier this week, the 49ers’ owner, Jed York, has already dumped $1.1 million into an independent expenditure committee to elect a slate of city council members in Santa Clara, where his team plays at the $1.2 billion Levi’s stadium. Campaign finance documents show he added another $300,000 to the pot last night.  — “America scrambles to take part in the Mark Zuckerberg $250 million gold rush,” by Vox’s Theodore Schleifer: “Zuckerberg’s $250 million gift to bolster local governments has set off a gold rush across the country as frenzied election officials rush to apply, secure, and deploy the money.”  PROP 22 — “Lawmakers want to amend this prop? It’ll take a ‘super, super, super-duper majority,’” by CalMatters’ Ben Christopher: “By default, a law enacted by ballot measure can only be changed by another law enacted by ballot measure. … Compared to that default, Prop. 22’s high bar for amendments actually gives the Legislature more influence than the norm.”  UNWANTED SUPPORT — “Darrell Issa’s uncomfortable endorsement by the American Independent Party,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Michael Smolens: “Some political strategists believe the AIP endorsement can help electorally in some areas, at least on the margins, or they wouldn’t pursue it for their candidates, who are frequently Republicans. In Issa’s case, no request was made for the endorsement, according to his campaign manager, John Franklin.”  ATKINS CHALLENGE — “San Diego’s 39th state Senate district pits powerful incumbent against former write-in candidate,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Jeff McDonald: “But Linda Dealy Blankenship, a Carmel Valley homemaker who worked her way into the November runoff as a write-in candidate in the March primary, is undaunted by the challenge of trying to topple popular San Diego Democrat Sen. Toni Atkins.”  LOOKING AHEAD TO 2022: Businessman John Cox submitted a contribution report Wednesday for a 2022 gubernatorial exploratory committee, to which he’s given $50,000. It’s the latest sign he’s angling for a rematch against Newsom.  — “GOP Senate group's fundraising letter may have violated state law,” by the LA Times’ David Lazarus.  GAVINLAND  NEWSOM DEFENDS MASK TWEET — via POLITICO’s Carla Marinucci: “Newsom pushed back hard Wednesday against Republicans and conservative media slamming his recent tweet calling for masks in between restaurant bites, flipping it back on President Donald Trump by saying critics should ‘soberly take a look at what's going on in the White House' and consider the severe impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on Americans and the economy.  — “Some Republicans have been having a field day with Newsom’s Oct 3 suggestion on Twitter: ‘Going out to eat with members of your household this weekend? Don't forget to keep your mask on in between bites.’  — “The Daily Mail headlined [Tuesday] that Newsom is being ‘ridiculed’ for the tweet, and quoted from a number of critics who suggested the tweet was legislative overkill.  — “‘People want to bastardize these things and manipulate these health guidelines,’ said Newsom, asked about the criticism. But the Covid pandemic ‘requires seriousness of purpose and serious leadership — and it requires people to move out of their bunker mindset.’”    A message from The Great Courses Plus:  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  — “Can California ban fracking? Newsom's bold plan to fight climate change faces skepticism,” by the LA Times’ Taryn Luna and Phil Willon: “The call to ban fracking left some questioning whether the intent of the well-timed move by a governor with a taste for big promises was to draw national headlines or to launch a political dogfight in Sacramento against oil interests and their trade union allies.”  EDD UPDATE — “Here’s how California’s new ID.me verification system for unemployment is working,” by the SF Chronicle’s Kathleen Pender: “About 64% of the people who applied for unemployment benefits in California since the Employment Development Department deployed a new online identification tool Thursday were able to verify their identities using a mobile phone or computer, the vast majority without human assistance, according to data released Wednesday.”  NO HOME FOR HOMEKEY — “Milpitas mayor threatens to sue California over homeless housing project," by the Mercury News' Marisa Kendall: Milpitas Mayor Rich Tran "argues the project, which is exempt from the city’s usual permitting process, was rushed through without input from Milpitas officials or community members."  — “Newsom’s pick for California high court talks about coming out: ‘My journey was different’,” by the LA Times’ Maura Dolan: “He began coming out as gay during the last four to five years, he said during an interview Tuesday, and found the experience invigorating. He fell in love with his partner, real estate broker Sydney Shand, two years ago.”  FIRESTORM — “As Glass Fire burns, Wine Country residents grapple with future: ‘I just can’t deal with this anymore,’” by the SF Chronicle’s Mallory Moench and J.K. Dineen.  ANCIENT WISDOM — “Alarmed by Scope of Wildfires, Officials Turn to Native Americans for Help,” by the NYT’s Jill Cowan: “The work requires a deep understanding of how winds would spread flames down a particular hillside or when lighting a fire in a forest would foster the growth of certain plants, and that knowledge has been passed down through ceremony and practice. But until recently, it has been mostly dismissed as unscientific.”  COX’S PLAN — “California group: Fight wildfires with new ‘air armada’ paid for by scrapping bullet-train project,’’ via Washington Times.  ANOTHER NOBEL FOR UC BERKELEY — “2 scientists win Nobel chemistry prize for gene-editing tool,” by the AP’s Marilynn Marchione, Christina Larson and David Keyton.  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — “House Lawmakers Condemn Big Tech’s ‘Monopoly Power’ and Urge Their Breakups,” by NYT’s Cecilia Kang and David McCabe: “In a 449-page report that was presented by the House Judiciary Committee’s Democratic leadership, lawmakers said the four companies had turned from ‘scrappy’ start-ups into “the kinds of monopolies we last saw in the era of oil barons and railroad tycoons.’”  — “Facebook to ban political ads from election night until further notice,” by POLITICO’s Nancy Scola.  HOLLYWOODLAND  — “Anita Hill-Led Hollywood Commission Reveals Gender, Racial Bias Gap in Industry Workplaces,” by the Hollywood Reporter’s Etan Vlessing: “Women surveyed were around twice as likely as their male colleagues to say they had experienced biased or unfair behavior, according to the report. And women of color cited even higher rates of diversity and inclusion bias, or unfair behavior, than their White counterparts.”  — “U.S. Theaters Stare Down Worst-Case Scenario for 2020,” by the Hollywood Reporter’s Pamela McClintock.  CANNABIS COUNTRY  WHEN LIFE GIVES YOU LEMONS — “Four candidates vying for mayor’s job in Lemon Grove,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Karen Pearlman: “Looking for a way to close the financial gap, Lemon Grove will be looking to voters on Nov. 3 to pass a tax on any cannabis stores in the city.”  MIXTAPE  — “Five sailors granted immunity to testify in San Diego Navy SEAL sexual assault trial,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Andrew Dyer.  — “Bay Area home prices soar with suburban boom,” by the Mercury News’ Louis Hansen.  — “Pastor of iconic Sacramento church molested stepdaughter for years, suit claims,” by the Sac Bee’s Sam Stanton.  — “Man suspected of killing 2 daughters, self in California,” via the AP.  IN VALLEJO — “California city OKs emergency declaration to reform police,” by the AP’s Janie Har.  IN MEMORIAM  — Newsom issued a statement Wednesday regarding the death of California Community Colleges board of governors member Alma Salazar, saying that “through her service on the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges, Alma opened doors and changed lives.”  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].    Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca  Follow Us  CORRECTION: Due to an editing error, a previous version of California Playbook misstated Lorena Gonzalez's title. VP DEBATE: Kamala comes out swinging — NEWSOM AIDE tests positive for COVID — ICE arrests 128 in sanctuary city raids — Anonymous ‘former staffer’ hits KATIE HILL on Twitter