POLITICO Dispatch: September 24 With kids at home and classes online, students are extra reliant on technology. But that's not an easy lift in lower-income districts that lack funding and resources.  The constant stream of disasters and debacles over the past two years has rattled even the most senior lawmakers, putting everyone on edge about what terrible catastrophe could possibly happen next.  “It’s probably the most tumultuous, challenging atmosphere I’ve ever seen up here. And not just for us — this represents what’s going on in the nation. Unusual. Unprecedented,” said veteran Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), who was first elected to Congress in 1978. “But when a plague comes, it compounds all the other problems.”  As it sputters from crisis to crisis, Congress — already the most detested branch of government — has somehow discovered more ways to disappoint the American public. Both sides agree on just one thing: The partisan politics are outright toxic, and getting worse with each earth-shattering development.  “The hits just keep coming,” said Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), who said trying to follow the frenetic news cycles has been like “drinking out of a water hose.”  “Just when you think you have it figured out, something happens,” added Sen. Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), who served in the House for several terms before assuming his current Senate seat in January 2019.  Even veteran lawmakers say the period feels unprecedented, comparing the political upheaval to the Civil Rights era of the late 1960s or World War II, or in more recent times, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  But now, Republicans and Democrats are wrestling with the overlapping crises of the economy, social justice, public health and discord of the Trump era, generally.  Lawmakers have achieved some success, such as a $2.2 trillion coronavirus relief package that delivered badly needed aid to the most desperate Americans in the early stages of the pandemic. And House Democrats have passed much of their own ambitious agenda, from police reform to protecting Dreamers to infrastructure, only to see it ignored by the GOP-controlled Senate.  Things have gotten so bad, though, that the House and Senate couldn’t renew a law designed to help the victims of violent crimes, let alone another badly needed coronavirus aid bill. The Senate has been unable to pass anti-lynching legislation. And this week, the Senate couldn't even agree on a nonbinding resolution honoring Ginsburg amid a heated dispute over filling the Supreme Court vacancy in an election year.  Lawmakers on the left and the right are now casually discussing extreme tactics that could inflict permanent damage on the institution. Democrats are considering blowing up the filibuster and packing the Supreme Court isn’t off the table if Republicans do, indeed, confirm a high court pick with just days to go before the election. ‘The hits just keep coming’: Congress stumbles from crisis to crisis