Republicans line up behind swift SCOTUS vote Presented by  PAYBACK’S A MITCH -- Buckle up, because it’s about to get wild — and ugly — on Capitol Hill. The death of liberal Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and President Donald Trump’s push to fill the seat ASAP has teed up one of the most ferocious and consequential confirmation battles in the Senate’s history, which is landing in the middle of the election season and amidst a global health pandemic.  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell — who is undeterred by accusations of hypocrisy and whose legacy will be defined by his confirmation of conservative Trump judges — is vowing to fill the vacancy this year. And McConnell has already locked down support from key Republicans to move ahead with a quick vote. Democrats, meanwhile, are promising to raise hell — and warning of possible payback if they win back the Senate.  Here’s everything you need to know about the historic Supreme Court showdown:  1) THE TIMING: It’s still up in the air when McConnell will hold a final confirmation vote, though he will get the ball rolling on the whole process as soon as Trump nominates a replacement, which is expected to happen soon. McConnell will huddle with his leadership team tonight and then meet with the entire Senate GOP conference for their weekly lunch on Tuesday, which could produce some more clarity on the timing issue.  But there’s two schools of thought here: McConnell could hold a vote in the lame-duck session of Congress, which could protect vulnerable Republicans who are up for reelection and allow the GOP to use the looming confirmation vote as a motivating factor to juice the base in November. This also makes the most sense from a calendar perspective, as the average Supreme Court confirmation process takes more than two months from start to finish.  Or, McConnell could try to wrap this up before Election Day. The benefit there is that if Trump loses the White House, some moderate Republicans might not be comfortable voting for the outgoing president’s nominee. Plus, McConnell might be working with a slimmer majority in the lame-duck if Democrat Mark Kelly wins a special election in Arizona and is sworn in this fall. But GOP Sen. Roy Blunt cautioned that “to get it done before Election Day everything has to work I think pretty precisely.”  2) THE MATH -- McConnell can only afford to lose three Republicans. Two GOP lawmakers — Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — have already publicly come out against holding a vote before the election. And Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden implored Republicans to “follow your conscience.”  But other key Republicans have lined up behind McConnell’s strategy of holding a swift vote. That includes retiring Sen. Lamar Alexander, an institutionalist; Sen. Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a top Trump ally who is up for reelection; Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), a moderate; and Sens. Thom Tillis and Martha McSally, who are both in tough races.  Who we’re still waiting to hear from: Sen. Mitt Romney, who voted to convict the president during the impeachment trial and who has no loyalty to Trump; Sen. Chuck Grassley, who chaired the Judiciary Committee when Obama appointed (but the GOP refused to hold hearings on) Merrick Garland; and Sen. Cory Gardner, who is facing a competitive reelection battle in the purple state of Colorado and has hewed closely to Trump.  But as we’ve seen pretty consistently on Capitol Hill, the political calculation for most Republicans tends to be that they have more to lose than gain by bucking Trump. The latest on the whip count from Andrew and Nolan McCaskill: https://politi.co/32OIJBw .  3) THE DEM STRATEGY -- If McConnell has the votes for Trump’s nominee, there is nothing Democrats can do to stop the GOP from ramming it through. But Democrats may at least try to use some procedural tactics to slow down the process. Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested that Dems “have arrows in our quiver that I’m not about to discuss right now.”  But Pelosi shot down the idea of holding up government funding as a way to delay the Senate from filling the vacancy. Current government funding runs dry on Sept. 30 (more on that later). “None of us has any interest in shutting down government so I would hope that we could just proceed with that,” Pelosi told ABC’s “This Week.” But the truth is, there’s not a whole lot Dems can do here.  4) THE LONG-TERM IMPACT -- This partisan brawl will only further inflame an already polarized Senate, which could leave a long-lasting mark on the institution. In fact, progressives want Democrats to fight fire with fire — and Senate Dems are suggesting possible retaliation if they win back the Senate and the GOP succeeds in appointing Trump’s nominee to the high court.  During a Democratic conference call Saturday, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer told his colleagues that “nothing is off the table for next year” and “everything Americans value is at stake.” Progressives are not only pushing to eliminate the legislative filibuster, but also calling to expand the Supreme Court. And momentum for both ideas — which would fundamentally alter the institution — is only going to grow in the coming weeks. Much more from Marianne, Andrew and Bres: https://politi.co/2ZRXim8 .  Related SCOTUS reads: “Here's why a Supreme Court battle could benefit the GOP,” from CNN’s Manu Raju, Alex Rogers and Ted Barrett: https://cnn.it/2HnKgXb ; and “Sen. Graham’s challenge: Fill a court seat and save his own,” by The AP’s Meg Kinnard: https://bit.ly/33N5DZh .  MADAM SPEAKER MOURNS -- Speaker Nancy Pelosi was among the throng of mourners who paid their respects to RBG over the weekend at a makeshift memorial outside the Supreme Court. Pelosi brought a bouquet of white flowers to leave near the steps of the high court, which were flooded with floral arrangements, candles, signs, sidewalk chalk messages and more. Watch: https://bit.ly/32TLfGV .  HAPPY MONDAY! Welcome to Huddle, the play-by-play guide to all things Capitol Hill, on this September 21, where if you haven’t discovered the gem that is Sen. Chuck Grassley’s Twitter account , please do so now. It is truly a ray of light in these dark times.  FRIDAY’S MOST CLICKED: The Hill’s report on Senate Republicans expressing openness to working with a president Joe Biden was the big winner.  Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg died Friday evening at her home in Washington with family at her side. | Associated Press  A message from McDonald's: Ron started as a crew member at McDonald’s in Oakland, CA where he found an exciting path. Thanks to college tuition assistance from McDonald’s, Ron became the first college graduate in his family, and today works in Operations at McDonald’s headquarters. Learn how Ron and others succeed at McDonald’s.  FUNDING FIGHT -- While no one expects a government shutdown, the process of funding the government hasn’t exactly been smooth sailing. Here’s the latest on the funding fight, from Caitlin Emma and Bres: “Congressional leaders missed a self-imposed deadline on Friday to strike an agreement on legislation that would keep the government open through Dec. 11, with House Democrats now hoping to file the stopgap spending bill by Monday.  “Lingering issues over a White House demand to deliver tens of billions of dollars in trade relief for farmers — which Democrats oppose — ultimately caused the delay, while lawmakers made progress in other areas. Democrats and Republicans have clashed for days over when the continuing resolution should expire and which funding and policy exceptions should be included.  “Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin were ticking through some of the biggest unresolved issues on Friday, congressional aides said. Earlier in the afternoon, it had appeared Democrats agreed to provide the farmer bailout in exchange for $2 billion in pandemic-related food assistance to help families with school-age children buy groceries.” More: https://politi.co/2ZXV5Fw .  Related read: “Supreme Court Fight Complicates Coronavirus Aid Talks, Spending Bill,” by WSJ’s Andrew Duehren and Kristina Peterson: https://on.wsj.com/2RKD9d9 .  COVID IN THE CAPITOL -- Another member of Congress has tested positive for coronavirus. Reminder: there is still no widespread testing in the Capitol. The latest from Reuters: “U.S. Representative Jahana Hayes tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday and has decided to quarantine for 14 days, she said on Twitter, becoming the latest member of Congress to test positive for COVID-19. ‘I have taken every possible precaution and still contracted coronavirus,’ Hayes, a Connecticut Democrat, said in a tweet.  “Hayes said she was asymptomatic except for breathing issues, which were being monitored. At least 17 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate - nine Republicans and seven Democrats - have tested positive or are presumed to have had COVID-19. … Hayes on Twitter said that though mask-wearing, social distancing and cleaning precautions are taken in the House of Representatives, members of Congress are not regularly tested for COVID-19.” More: https://reut.rs/32O27yp .  GETTING TO KNOW OMAR: “Ilhan Omar Is Not Here to Put You at Ease,” by NYT’s David Marchese: https://nyti.ms/2FQu7sy .  YOU JUST CAN’T TESTIFY WITH US -- The White House has blocked the FDA chief from testifying on Capitol Hill, which is only intensifying growing concerns among Democrats about political interference at the agency. David Lim with the story: “The White House has blocked FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn from testifying to a House committee about his agency’s pandemic response, angering the panel's top Democrats who said they have pressing questions about political interference at the agency.  “Hahn briefed members of the committee during a private Aug. 31 teleconference, but there is ‘bipartisan interest’ in holding a public hearing, the Democrats said. A White House spokesperson confirmed that Hahn was blocked from testifying, calling the decision ‘part of the administration’s existing protocol to make sure health officials can keep their time and energy focused on responding to the coronavirus.’ The spokesperson noted Hahn has testified to Congress four times in the past six months, including before Pallone's committee in June.” More: https://politi.co/33JOuQc .  Related read: “Powell and Mnuchin Set to Get Grilled on Need for More Stimulus,” per Bloomberg’s Christopher Condon and Saleha Mohsin: https://bloom.bg/3ctYXU5 .  DOWN BALLOT -- Dems aren't going to be shut out of redistricting like they were after the 2010 GOP wave. But under-the-radar elections in key states this fall will determine just how much say they will have on the new maps for 2022. Ally Mutnick with the dispatch: “Far away from the glare of the presidential campaign, a competition rivaling it in importance is playing out across the country: for power over the redistricting process — and potentially control of the House for the next decade.  “Republicans dominated the 2010 elections and used their authority over map-drawing to cement a hold on the House for most of this decade. This time, Democrats are poised to claw back some of that power, and the extent of their gains will come down to under-the-radar elections in a pair of GOP-leaning Sun Belt states: North Carolina and Texas. Both parties are funneling millions into the battle for the Texas state House and the North Carolina legislature, eager to have a greater say in the crafting of what could be as many as 53 congressional districts between the two states combined.” More: https://politi.co/3mH1D55 .  Related read: “Democratic Senate campaign arm outraises GOP by $8M in August,” via The Hill’s Rebecca Klar: https://bit.ly/3mBL0rE .      TRANSITIONS  Tejasi Thatte is now COS for Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-Calif.). She most recently was VP of government relations at NCTA - The Internet & Television Association.  Jessie Andrews is now COS for Rep. Antonio Delgado (D-N.Y.). She previously was legislative director/deputy chief of staff for Delgado. Laura Driscoll is now legislative director for Delgado. She most recently was senior legislative assistant for him.  Kelly Collins is now senior policy adviser to Rep. Larry Bucshon (R-Ind.). She previously was special assistant for the White House Council on Environmental Quality.  TODAY IN CONGRESS  The Senate meets at 3 p.m. Lawmakers will resume consideration of the nomination of Edward Meyers to be a judge on the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. At 5:30 p.m., they will vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the Meyers nomination.  The House gavels in at noon, but no votes are expected today.  AROUND THE HILL  Reps. Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.) and Nanette Barragan (D-Calif.) hold a virtual forum on “ICE Detention Facilities: Failing to Meet Basic Standards of Care” at 1 p.m.  TRIVIA  FRIDAY’S WINNER: Jason D'Antonio was the first person to correctly guess that the Treasury and Defense departments are the only two federal executive departments that have never been helmed by a woman or person of color.  TODAY’S QUESTION: From Jason: Which former Secretary of State and immigrant served as an Allied interpreter during World War II? The first person to correctly guess gets a mention in the next edition of Huddle. Send your best guess to [email protected] .  GET HUDDLE emailed to your phone each morning.  A message from McDonald's: Ron always knew he could go places, he just didn’t know where to start. So he applied for a job at McDonald’s, where he found an exciting path and free college tuition assistance. Ron’s drive to succeed and support from his Manager helped make him the first in his family to graduate college. Today, he puts his college degree work as an Operations Associate at McDonald’s headquarters. There are tens of thousands of stories like Ron’s at McDonald’s, where restaurant employees take multiple paths to learn and grow. We offer programs and benefits like Archways to Opportunity®, which has expanded access to education for more than 60,000 crew members and managers while providing more than $125M in tuition assistance. Learn how Ron and others build careers at McDonald’s.  Follow us on Twitter Melanie Zanona @MZanona Republicans line up behind swift SCOTUS vote