Paid for by coronavirus loans: Rolls-Royces, Rolexes and rowhouses  With help from Kellie Mejdrich  Editor’s Note: Weekly Shift is a weekly version of POLITICO Pro’s daily Employment & Immigration policy newsletter, Morning Shift. POLITICO Pro is a policy intelligence platform that combines the news you need with tools you can use to take action on the day’s biggest stories. Act on the news with POLITICO Pro.  Quick Fix  — Applicants to a pair of emergency federal loan programs used the cash they received to bankroll their lavish lifestyles, the Department of Justice has alleged.  — Agricultural workers are suffering disproportionately from Covid-19 — which some warn could create new surges in infections.  — The Senate plans to vote on the latest GOP coronavirus aid package Thursday, but Democrats say it stands no chance in the House.  GOOD MORNING. It’s Wednesday, Sept. 9, and this is Morning Shift, your tipsheet on employment and immigration news. If you’re a health care worker, we want to know what you’re hearing and seeing on the front lines of the pandemic. Share your perspective here. And send tips, exclusives and suggestions to [email protected] and [email protected]. Follow us on Twitter at @Eleanor_Mueller and @RebeccaARainey.  Driving the Day  CORONAVIRUS LOANS MISUSED, DOJ SAYS: The DOJ has targeted more than 40 individuals for crimes related to fraudulent applications for government-backed small business loans “that were intended to soften the economic blow of the coronavirus pandemic,” our Kellie Mejdrich reports.  The fraud represents a drop in the bucket, considering the two Small Business Administration's programs — the Paycheck Protection Program and the Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program — have doled out hundreds of billions, and the DOJ cases so far only amount to some $170 million. But taxpayer advocates say the cases underscore the need for more transparency and that the amount of data released by the government is unacceptable — even as Congress considers whether to make it easier for PPP loans of less than $150,000 to be forgiven and to throw more money at the program.  The SBA inspector general's office says it has “initiated hundreds of cases involving potential fraud" in the two programs, Kellie reports. The alleged fraudsters stand accused of using money meant for payroll instead to “finance such extravagances as luxury cars, Vegas gambling trips and nights on the town at strip clubs.”  RELATED: “JPMorgan Probing Employees’ Role in Misuse of Relief Funds,” from Bloomberg  COVID-19 IN THE FIELDS: The nation’s 2.5 million farmworkers — about half of whom the government estimates are undocumented — are critical to keeping the food system working, but have gotten little federal help to protect themselves from the coronavirus, our Helena Bottemiller Evich, Ximena Bustillo and Liz Crampton report.  Orchard worker Francisco Hernandez reaches to pull honey crisp apples off the vine during a thinning of the trees at an orchard in Yakima, Wash. on June 16, 2020. | AP Photo/Elaine Thompson  “For several weeks,” they write, “many of the places that grow the nation’s fruits and vegetables have seen disproportionately high rates of coronavirus cases — a national trend that, as harvest season advances in many states, threatens already vulnerable farmworkers, their communities and the places they work.”  Health departments are not collecting data on how many individual farmworkers have tested positive or been hospitalized or killed by the coronavirus. “The Food and Environment Reporting Network estimates that at least 57,000 food system workers, including 6,700 farmworkers, have tested positive for Covid-19 nationally, but that’s just a partial snapshot because testing is limited,” Helena, Ximena and Liz write.  AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL… The Trump administration has repeatedly declined to impose mandatory safety requirements for any workplace. And the federal government has not designated any pandemic aid to help farmers obtain personal protective gear for their laborers, unlike other essential workers like nurses and police officers.  “Trump’s silence on the immigration status of farmworkers, critics say, is one of political convenience as farmers, a rock-solid part of the president’s base, freely admit there’s simply no way to harvest the country’s crops without help from foreign workers, whether they live in the U.S. without legal status or come in for several months on a work visa.”  On the Hill  SENATE SKINNY BILL UPDATE: Senate Republicans introduced S. 178 Tuesday in an effort to prod Democrats forward on another round of pandemic aid, following weeks of disagreement over how much Congress should bolster the pandemic-battered economy, our Marianne LeVine and John Bresnahan report.  The GOP hasn’t tallied whether it has enough votes to pass the bill, but is tentatively planning to vote on the measure Thursday, they write.  WHAT’S IN IT: “The new, more narrow GOP proposal will provide $300 in increased weekly federal unemployment benefits through Dec. 27, additional money for the Paycheck Protection Program and liability protections for schools and businesses as they try to reopen,” the pair report. The cost of the package is estimated at $500 billion, but the measure also proposes rescinding hundreds of billions in previously appropriated funds to hold down the costs.  WHAT’S NOT: The $1,200 stimulus checks supported by President Donald Trump and members of the GOP. (h/t to WaPo’s Jeff Stein)  ‘HEADED NOWHERE’: Democratic leaders and the White House have been at a stalemate for several weeks over the next round of pandemic aid, and Congress is only in session for a few weeks before members go home to campaign.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer have already panned the GOP proposal as “emaciated,” issuing a statement that the bill is “headed nowhere.”  Economy  COVID-19 RECESSION WORSENS WEALTH GAP: The coronavirus-induced recession has widened an already dramatic wealth gap in the U.S., as wealthier Americans continue to earn and save at record levels while the poorest struggle to pay their bills and nearly 30 million rely on unemployment benefits, our Megan Cassella reports.  2020 VISION: The growing divide could also hit Trump's reelection bid, Megan Cassella writes, as Trump's base of working-class, blue-collar voters in the Midwest are another demographic that’s taken a serious hit. And though Trump has campaigned on his ability to reignite the U.S. economy, a recent Reuters/Ipsos poll found that nearly 60 percent of people think the economy is on the wrong track.  MORE: “In Battleground Pennsylvania, Blue- and White-Collar Voters Move Farther Apart,” from The Wall Street Journal  In the Workplace  AUDIT FINDS DC METRO CREATES HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT: A recent audit into the District of Columbia’s subway operations center found the workplace created a “toxic” environment where employees “are bullied, racially and sexually harassed, and told by managers to ignore authorities and operating procedures,” Justin George reports for The Washington Post.  The 50-page report points out “deep cultural, communication and organizational flaws in the agency’s Rail Operations Control Center,” raising questions about Metrorail safety for both employees and passengers.  WHAT NOW? “Metro has 45 days to begin addressing more than 20 safety and structural findings identified by the commission, an independent panel created by Congress to oversee Metro safety after the previous oversight panel was found to be ineffective,” George writes.  Regulatory Corner  DOL TO WEIGH IN ON GIG WORKER DEBATE: The White House budget office is reviewing a DOL proposed rule that would clarify whether a worker should be classified as an employee or an independent contractor. OMB began review of the regulation on Aug. 28, the first step before the proposal is published publicly.  The question could have huge ramifications for the gig economy, as workers for apps like Uber, Lyft and Doordash are generally classified as independent contractors who aren’t protected under federal minimum wage and overtime laws. A source briefed directly on the situation confirmed to Morning Shift that DOL leadership wouldn’t have included it on the regulatory agenda if it didn’t think it could finalize the rule this year.  BUT… Such a rule could be threatened next Congress if Democrats were to win the White House and take control of Congress in the fall. Under the Congressional Review Act, Congress can use a fast-track procedure to overturn a regulation issued within the prior 60 legislative days via simple majority votes.  FEDERAL COURT VOIDS PARTS OF DOL JOINT EMPLOYER RULE: A federal court on Tuesday invalidated several parts of the Trump administration’s joint employer rule. Southern District of New York federal judge Gregory Woods found the rule was “arbitrary and capricious” and that the DOL’s interpretation of who counts as a joint employer conflicted with the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act.  The rule, issued in January, set up a more stringent legal test that made it harder for businesses to be on the hook as a “joint employer” when their franchisees or contractors violate federal wage and overtime laws. The rulemaking marked a reversal from the Obama administration, which said a business with indirect control over employees could be held jointly liable, a looser standard that made it easier to classify companies as joint employers.  Specifically, the opinion vacates the Trump administration test for what is known as “vertical” joint employer liability. Vertical joint employment is more common, and occurs when an individual is employed by a contractor or staffing agency, but relies on the work provided by another business who has contracted them. The opinion and order.  What We're Reading  — “Senators tell Trump administration to stop forcing payroll tax deferral on federal workers,” from The Washington Post  — “Regulators want banks to report more diversity data,” from POLITICO  —“McDonald’s, a Pioneer on Diversity, Now Finds Itself Under Fire,” from The Wall Street Journal  — “As nation fights systemic racism, report finds pattern of exclusion in Illinois trade unions,” from The Chicago Sun Times  — “Census Bureau stops layoffs for door knockers after order,” from The Associated Press  — “NCAA rules allow White students and coaches to profit off labor of Black ones, study finds,” from The Washington Post  — “Column: Uber and Lyft just made their campaign to pay workers less the costliest in history,” from The Los Angeles Times  — “Joe Biden threatens ‘personal price’ if business leaders oppose attempts to unionize,” from The New York Post  — “Investigations at Essence Find No Evidence of Abusive Work Culture,” from The New York Times  THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT!  Follow us on Twitter Rebecca Rainey @rebeccaarainey Paid for by coronavirus loans: Rolls-Royces, Rolexes and rowhouses