OSHA fines meatpacking plants almost $30K after Covid-19 deaths  Editor’s Note: Weekly Shift is a weekly version of POLITICO Pro’s daily Employment & Immigration policy newsletter, Morning Shift. POLITICO Pro is a policy intelligence platform that combines the news you need with tools you can use to take action on the day’s biggest stories. Act on the news with POLITICO Pro.  Quick Fix  Last week, and six months into the coronavirus pandemic, the federal worker safety agency issued its first Covid-19-related citations in the meatpacking industry, where the United Food and Commercial Workers estimated that more than 18,000 workers have been exposed to the virus. But the union, which represents meatpacking workers, said the citations issued against a Smithfield plant in South Dakota and a plant owned by JBS Foods in Colorado are a “new low” for the Trump administration.  Together, the fines against the two companies totaled roughly $29,000, despite a combined total of at least 12 worker deaths and almost 1,500 infections due to outbreaks at both plants, according to Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the UFCW.  Employees of two departments at the Smithfield pork processing plant in Sioux Falls, S.D. report to work on May 4, 2020. | AP Photo/Stephen Groves  With the fines, OSHA and the Department of Labor “prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that they do not care about holding irresponsible corporations accountable for the lives lost or worker safety,” UFCW President Marc Perrone said in a statement.  Former OSHA officials say the agency could have charged more. “OSHA went VERY VERY easy on Smithfield,” tweeted Dr. David Michaels, head of OSHA during the Obama administration. He said the agency “could have issued numerous citations” one for each of the areas the agency found the company failed to protect workers. He added that “if OSHA asserted they were willful, the penalty could be 10X as high.” (OSHA’s maximum fine for a “willful” citation is $134,937.)  For its part, the Trump administration has declined to issue mandatory safety rules during the pandemic, instead offering optional guidelines, which it maintains are sufficient to shield workers from the coronavirus. “OSHA has meatpacking industry guidance and other resources to assist in worker protection,” said OSHA Denver Area Director Amanda Kupper in a statement in the citation issued to JBS Foods.  But federal OSHA officials recently admitted during proceedings in a lawsuit filed by workers at a Maid-Rite Specialty Foods plant in Pennsylvania that the guidelines require nothing of factory managers. Although OSHA inspectors witnessed employees working “2 to 3 feet” apart without physical barriers — which goes against the Centers for Disease Control’s advice and OSHA’s safety recommendations — the agency concluded there was no “imminent danger” at the plant that needed to be immediately addressed by the company. OSHA said that its work isn’t done at the Maid-Rite Specialty plant and that it has six months to issue a citation.  Because OSHA hasn’t issued Covid-19-specific safety regulations, as Democrats and unions have called for, the agency could only cite Smithfield and JBS under a provision in the 1970 statute that created OSHA called the “general duty clause.” The provision requires businesses to maintain “a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm” to employees.  OSHA has rarely used the general duty clause in enforcement — in part because it’s a cumbersome legal tool that requires review from the higher ranks at the agency, which can take time. The provision also has a four-part legal test that makes it vulnerable to court challenge. (More on that here.) Both Smithfield and JBS have 15 business days to contest the citations.  GOOD MORNING. It’s Monday, Sept. 14, and this is Morning Shift, your tipsheet on employment and immigration news. If you’re a health care worker, we want to know what you’re hearing and seeing on the front lines of the pandemic. Share your perspective here. And send tips, exclusives and suggestions to [email protected] and [email protected]. Follow us on Twitter at @Eleanor_Mueller and @RebeccaARainey.  Driving the Day  DOL ISSUES NEW RULE ON FFCRA PAID LEAVE: The Labor Department is tweaking its rules on who is considered a “health care provider” and thus exempt from the pandemic paid sick leave mandated by the Families First Families First Coronavirus Response Act, a change that will allow more workers to qualify for paid leave.  REFRESHER: Under that relief package, certain employers were required to give workers who are quarantined or experiencing Covid-19 symptoms two weeks' paid sick leave, and grant an additional 10 weeks' leave to workers who are caring for children stuck at home.  The revision comes after a federal judge invalidated parts of the DOL’s original rule in August, finding that the agency’s interpretation of the health care worker exemption was “vastly overbroad” and left out workers “whose roles bear no nexus whatsoever to the provision of healthcare services.”  WHAT’S NEW? In a temporary rule that will be published in the Federal Register Wednesday, the DOL clarifies that health care providers are employees who “provide diagnostic services, preventive services, treatment services, or other services that are integrated with and necessary to the provision of patient care.”  The DOL also reaffirmed a provision of its original rule that allows employers to withhold paid leave if they have no work for employees to perform and a requirement that workers must seek permission from their employer to take intermittent leave. Both of these sections of the original rule were invalidated under the August court order, but DOL is now providing more explanation of the legal basis for those provisions.  On the Hill  PREGNANT WORKER PROTECTIONS BILL TO HIT HOUSE FLOOR: The House Rules committee will meet at 1 p.m. to prepare H.R. 2694 (116), The Pregnant Workers’ Fairness Act, for floor debate, readying it for a full House vote this week. The legislation would require employers to provide reasonable accommodations to help pregnant workers continue working and would also bar employers from denying employment opportunities to them because they are pregnant.  In the States  CABBIES POISED FOR REBOUND IN AB 5 FIGHT: If Uber and Lyft pull out of the Golden State over California’s Assembly Bill 5, taxi drivers “are eager to let the public know that they are ready to take up the slack,” Carolyn Said reports for the San Francisco Chronicle.  “Taxis have already matched some Uber and Lyft features,” Said writes, “such as apps for summoning vehicles, on top of phone dispatch and street hails, neither of which are available from the ride-hailing companies.” The threat of the ride-hailing apps leaving California has even helped business, Hansu Kim, owner of a taxi company based in San Francisco, told the Chronicle. He said he’s received inquiries “from companies that wanted to open corporate accounts.”  BACKGROUND: “The two ride-hailing companies threatened to temporarily cease service in California because of a preliminary injunction in a court case seeking to force them to reclassify drivers as employees. They won a temporary reprieve, but it’s unknown how they’ll react if Proposition 22, a ballot measure they are backing that would permanently keep drivers as independent contractors, does not pass in November.”  Immigration  ICE DEPORTATION ARRESTS RESUME: A nationwide immigration enforcement operation was announced this month, “the first large-scale arrests and deportations in the interior of the country since the coronavirus pandemic halted field operations for several months,” Miriam Jordan reports for The New York Times. “Since mid-July, immigration agents have taken more than 2,000 people into custody from their homes, workplaces and other sites, including a post office, often after staking them out for days.”  WHO WAS TARGETED? About 85 percent of those caught in the sweep “either had criminal convictions or pending criminal charges,” Jordan reports. “But analysis of the totality of the government’s own data shows that the administration is arresting large numbers of undocumented immigrants whose crimes are minor, or who have not committed any crime at all.”  WHY? As Jordan explains: “These immigrants are easier to locate and remove precisely because they are not trying to evade law enforcement, even if they have outstanding deportation orders.”  2020 Watch  BIDEN COURTS BLACK FARMERS: “The Biden campaign has spent the summer criticizing discrimination in agriculture, organizing roundtable discussions and tapping former Black government officials in an aggressive push to attract Black farmers, a small but potentially significant slice of the rural vote,” our Ximena Bustillo reports. “Farmers of color, numbering more than 260,000 nationally, make up between 10 and 65 percent of farmers in almost a dozen states, including swing states of Arizona, Florida and Nevada.”  “Black farmers have long struggled to get equal access to USDA programs that help build credit and address civil rights complaints,” Ximena writes. “They have pushed the government for more enforcement to retain land that has been in their families for generations at a time when farmers, generally, are facing unprecedented economic headwinds due to the pandemic and trade war disruptions. The Biden campaign has released a plan to work with nonwhite farmers to tackle these issues.”  What We're Reading  — “From a stable job to a tent: A waiter’s homeless struggle,” from The Associated Press  — “The Maitre d’ Will Take Your Temperature Now,” from The New York Times  — ICYMI: “ICE flew detainees to Virginia so the planes could transport agents to D.C. protests. A huge coronavirus outbreak followed,” from The Washington Post  — “A Lifeline to the Jobless Has Problems With Fraud, and With Math,” from The New York Times  — “Why Massachusetts has the highest unemployment rate in the country,” from The Boston Globe  —“‘I am part of the collateral damage’: Trump’s TikTok battle creates nightmare for some tech workers,” from The Los Angeles Times  — “Teacher departures leave schools scrambling for substitutes,” from The Associated Press  — “Despite Coronavirus, Developed Economies Seeking Immigrant Workers,” from The Wall Street Journal  THAT’S ALL FOR MORNING SHIFT!  Follow us on Twitter Rebecca Rainey @rebeccaarainey OSHA fines meatpacking plants almost $30K after Covid-19 deaths