That sense of moderation and strategy got her in hot water during her confirmation hearings, when abortion rights advocates worried that she was insufficiently supportive of the right to choose. In a lecture at NYU Law School just a few months before her nomination to the Supreme Court, she questioned the rationale and timing of Roe v. Wade, blaming the court’s overbroad decision for the continued political controversy over abortion. Given that she’s become a legal giant and progressive hero, it seems amazing that anyone once doubted Ginsburg’s pro-choice commitments.  The Supreme Court will now be as big an issue in the 2020 election as it was in 2016. It would be better if our law and politics didn’t turn on the physical health of judges, but, alas, that’s not the world we’re in.  ‘She never let abstract ideas distract her from reality’  Gillian Metzger is a professor and co-director of the Center for Constitutional Governance at Columbia Law School.  Justice Ginsburg had an extraordinary mind. But unlike some great minds, she never let abstract ideas distract her from reality. Her deep and abiding commitment to justice and equality drove her analytic rigor, not the other way round. All of the great opinions she penned — Virginia Military Institute, her dissents in Ledbetter and Shelby County, even her dissent this last term in Little Sisters — were so powerful because she showed how our greatest constitutional principles and legal traditions must speak to and reflect the reality we all live. This focus on law in reality may have come from her years as a women’s rights advocate, but also was what led her to become an advocate in the first place. It is why she became so uniquely notorious, and her death is a huge loss.  She understood the potential in all people  John Culhane is a professor of law and co-director of the Family Health Law & Policy Institute at Widener University Delaware Law School.  Through her long life, a life marked by surpassing courage and blinding luminescence, Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg propelled this nation forward in so many ways. In the areas of voting rights, affirmative action and the march toward LGBT+ equality, her legacy will endure. But she will be most forcefully invoked for the tectonic shift she wrought for gender equality. Both women and men have benefited from the simple elegance of her insistence that people be judged by who they are and what they do — not by their assignment to frozen, long-unexamined roles. Among her numberless contributions to that project, perhaps her opinion for the Supreme Court in the Virginia Military Institute case, where the court ruled against the school’s exclusion of women, best encapsulates her philosophy. No law or policy, she wrote, can deny “to women, simply because they are women, equal opportunity to aspire, achieve, participate in, and contribute to society, based upon what they can do.” Substitute “people” for “women” in that quotation to fully appreciate what Justice Ginsburg understood about the potential in all of us.  ‘The founding mother — or simply founder — of our nation’s sex equality jurisprudence’  Kenji Yoshino is a professor of constitutional law at NYU School of Law.  Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg transformed sex equality law — as a professor, as an advocate, as a judge and then finally as a justice on the United States Supreme Court. We see that most clearly in her canonical majority opinion in the 1996 case of United States v. Virginia, which held that the Virginia Military Institute could not deny women admission. She wrote: “[G]eneralizations about ‘the way women are,’ estimates of what is appropriate for most women, no longer justify denying opportunities to women whose talent and capacity place them outside the average description.” Like its author, this sentence was quietly radical. Its logic means that if any woman can meet a state’s standard for an opportunity, no woman can be denied access to it. That view has resonated across the decades to gradually reduce sex stereotypes about women — and men. It helped lay the foundation for cases ranging from the court’s 2015 decision recognizing same-sex marriage to its decisions just last term barring employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.  It would be too faint praise to observe that Justice Ginsburg’s own “talent and capacity” placed her far, far “outside the average description.” More than any other justice, she has embedded the principle that biology is not destiny into our fundamental law. As such, she can rightly be deemed the founding mother — or simply founder — of our nation’s sex equality jurisprudence. So it seems apt to bid her farewell bid her farewell with Chief Justice John Marshall’s words — penned just over two centuries ago — to the original Founding Fathers: “No tribute can be paid to [her] which exceeds [her] merit.”  ‘She was an exemplar of purpose and poise’  Josh Blackman is a constitutional law professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston, an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute and the president of the Harlan Institute.  On September 17, we marked the 233rd anniversary of the signing of the Constitution. On September 18, we mourned the passing of a constitutional giant. Throughout her remarkable career, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg left an indelible mark on how our Constitution is understood, and she was an exemplar of purpose and poise. As an attorney, she litigated the landmark gender equality cases. Her strategy was simple but momentous: Make the all-male Supreme Court understand why the government should not discriminate against people because of their sex. As a Supreme Court justice, she eloquently and persuasively articulated her constitutional vision for nearly three decades. As a colleague, she modeled civility, even with her jurisprudential foes. It is well known that she became dear friends with Justice Antonin Scalia. And as a pop icon, she inspired a generation of young women to aspire for greatness. May her memory be a blessing. The only consolation for this sad moment is that Justice Ginsburg can now be reunited with her beloved husband, Martin. And I hope she can soon enjoy a performance of The Marriage of Figaro at the big opera house in the sky — with her old pal Justice Scalia humming along.  She reminded us that realizing America’s ideals is a work in progress  Robert L. Tsai is a professor of law at American University and author of Practical Equality .  The promise of equality was her life’s work. From her pioneering litigation strategies as the head of the Women’s Rights Project at the ACLU to her quietly determined efforts to enforce the Constitution’s 14th Amendment as a justice on the Supreme Court, Ruth Bader Ginsburg had the audacity to improve upon Thomas Jefferson’s famous words: “All men are created equal.” She understood that the phrase comprised a living commitment rather than a description of reality. Diminutive in size, she possessed a towering intellect and a tremendous heart — two things essential to understanding the needs of the perennially downtrodden. ‘The Most Important Woman Lawyer in the History of the Republic’