POLITICO Playbook: ‘Will you please like me?’ Presented by Facebook  President Donald Trump, during a campaign stop Tuesday night in Johnstown, Pa., said: “So can I ask you to do me a favor, suburban women, will you please like me? Please. Please. I saved your damn neighborhood, OK?” | Evan Vucci/AP Photo  DRIVING THE DAY  WITH 20 DAYS until Election Day, it seems like someone might be reading polls … QUOTE OF THE DAY: President DONALD TRUMP, Tuesday night in Johnstown, Pa.: “So can I ask you to do me a favor, suburban women, will you please like me? Please. Please. I saved your damn neighborhood, OK?” Meridith McGraw in Johnstown on Trump pinning his hopes on a “hectic comeback tour”  WHAT THE RIGHT WILL BE TALKING ABOUT TODAY … N.Y. POST: “Smoking-gun email reveals how Hunter Biden introduced Ukrainian businessman to VP dad,” by Emma-Jo Morris and Gabrielle Fonrouge: “Hunter Biden introduced his father, then-Vice President Joe Biden, to a top executive at a Ukrainian energy firm less than a year before the elder Biden pressured government officials in Ukraine into firing a prosecutor who was investigating the company, according to e-mails obtained by The Post. …  “The computer was dropped off at a repair shop in Biden’s home state of Delaware in April 2019, according to the store’s owner. Other material extracted from the computer includes a raunchy, 12-minute video that appears to show Hunter, who’s admitted struggling with addiction problems, smoking crack while engaged in a sex act with an unidentified woman, as well as numerous other sexually explicit images.  “The customer who brought in the water-damaged MacBook Pro for repair never paid for the service or retrieved it or a hard drive on which its contents were stored, according to the shop owner, who said he tried repeatedly to contact the client. Photos of a Delaware federal court subpoena given to The Post show that both the computer and hard drive were seized by the FBI in December, after the shop’s owner says he alerted the feds to their existence.  “But before turning over the gear, the shop owner says he made a copy of the hard drive and later gave it to former Mayor Rudy Giuliani’s lawyer, Robert Costello. Steve Bannon, former adviser to President Trump, told The Post about the existence of the hard drive in late September and Giuliani provided The Post with a copy of it on Sunday.”  HOW SCOTUS PLAYED … DAVID MUIR on ABC’s “WORLD NEWS TONIGHT”: “Judge Amy Coney Barrett grilled by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee for hours, defended by Republicans on the committee. Judge Barrett answering without referring to any notes, at one point, holding up her notepad there to show it was blank. She has said that Justice Antonin Scalia, who she clerked for, that she shares his judicial philosophy, today saying she will be her own person on that court if confirmed.  “Repeatedly pushed on the Affordable Care Act, with a case before the court just days after the election -- Judge Barrett insisting it is not her ‘mission to destroy the act.’ And forcefully pushing back when asked if she would recuse herself if the results of the election are to come before the court, saying she hopes the committee would ‘have more confidence in my integrity.’ And the very personal moment today when she described talking to her own children about the video of George Floyd.”  -- JOSH GERSTEIN: “Senate Republicans had this to say Tuesday about the man who tapped Amy Coney Barrett for a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court, in essence: Donald who?”  -- NYT, A1, two columns: “Barrett Declines to Say She’ll Sit Out if Election Is Thrown to the Court … Sticking to Playbook of Deflection … Insists She Won’t Be ‘Pawn’ of Trump”  -- WAPO: “Barrett pledges to be apolitical justice” … Seung Min Kim and Anne Marimow’s ledeall  -- N.Y. POST: “Held hostage: Dems lecture Barrett in bizarre hearing: Marcus”  NEW … POLITICO/MORNING CONSULT POLL: BARRETT is getting more popular: 48% of registered voters believe she should be confirmed. Democrats who think she should be confirmed have jumped 13 points. … A WARNING ON WHACKING FAUCI … 64% of those polled say ANTHONY FAUCI has been excellent or good in his handling of the coronavirus. 39% say the same of TRUMP.  THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE begins another round of questioning at 9 a.m.  Good Wednesday morning.  SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI had a heated conversation with WOLF BLITZER on Tuesday night on CNN about her Covid relief efforts. Watch the 1:32 clip  -- THE UPSHOT: PELOSI doesn’t appreciate people questioning her approach, which is that she should continue to hold out for a better Covid relief deal because her negotiating position vis-a-vis the administration is strong. There are oodles of people who are quietly saying it’s a wrongheaded stance, but Rep. RO KHANNA (D-Calif.) is the only person suggesting publicly she should take the $1.8 trillion offer proffered by the administration. BLITZER, of course, was not defending the administration here.  ANYONE STILL THINK there’s going to be a deal? Ping us and make the argument!  A message from Facebook: Facebook supports updated internet regulations We support updated internet regulations to set clear rules for today’s toughest challenges and hold companies, including Facebook, accountable for:  — Combating foreign election interference  — Protecting people's privacy  — Enabling safe and easy data portability between platforms  Read more  FIRST DURHAM IS WAITING UNTIL POST-ELECTION, NOW THIS! … WAPO: “‘Unmasking’ probe commissioned by Barr concludes without charges or any public report,” by Matt Zapotosky and Shane Harris: “The federal prosecutor appointed by Attorney General William P. Barr to review whether Obama-era officials improperly requested the identities of individuals whose names were redacted in intelligence documents has completed his work without finding any substantive wrongdoing, according to people familiar with the matter.  “The revelation that U.S. Attorney John Bash, who left the department last week, had concluded his review without criminal charges or any public report will rankle President Trump at a moment when he is particularly upset at the Justice Department. The department has so far declined to release the results of Bash’s work, though people familiar with his findings say they would likely disappoint conservatives who have tried to paint the ‘unmasking’ of names — a common practice in government to help understand classified documents — as a political conspiracy.”  NEW: “Eugene Scalia’s wife tests positive for coronavirus,” by Colby Bermel: “The wife of Labor Secretary Eugene Scalia tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday afternoon, the department told its employees in a Tuesday night email. Trish Scalia ‘is experiencing mild symptoms but doing well,’the Labor Department wrote, adding that Secretary Scalia had tested negative and experienced no symptoms of the virus. The agency didn’t specify whether Trish Scalia would self-isolate, but did say, ‘The Secretary and Mrs. Scalia will follow the advice of health professionals for Trish’s recovery and the health of those around them.’”  POLITICO Playbook newsletter Sign up today to receive the #1-rated newsletter in politics Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or updates from POLITICO and you agree to our privacy policy and terms of service. You can unsubscribe at any time and you can contact us here. This sign-up form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.  SOME CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE SABER RATTLING … THE NRCC is giddy with excitement. They have a poll that has Rep. CHERI BUSTOS (D-Ill.), the chair of the DCCC, up just 5 percentage points over ESTHER JOY KING, the Republican running against her, with another 7 percent undecided. BUSTOS is from a TRUMP district -- which was part of her calling card when she ran. Democrats don’t put much stock in the poll, and think BUSTOS is going to wallop KING. BUT … BUSTOS did just go negative on KING, knocking her from being from Chicago and looking to cut health care. The ad  -- THE DCCC RESPONDS: “The rumors are true -- Chairwoman Bustos represents a district that swung 17 points toward Republicans in 2016 to vote for Donald Trump, and her constant focus on the needs of the communities she serves is why she’s continued to win her district handily year after year. What’s unclear is who the NRCC troll factory thinks they’re surprising with this poll when they have much bigger problems to deal with on every front.  “The fact that Cheri Bustos has won big in a Trump district is exactly the reason she is the right person to ensure the 30 Democrats in this caucus who also represent Trump won districts come back in three weeks.”  SCOTUS WATCH -- “Supreme Court allows Trump administration to end census count,” by Zach Montellaro and Josh Gerstein  -- NPR’s @hansilowang: “The Census Bureau says it will keep accepting online #2020Census responses at http://My2020Census.gov through Oct. 15 until 11:59 p.m. Hawaii Standard Time.” Census statement  BIG READ … NYT’S ASTEAD HERNDON with a ‘Long Run’ story: “What Kamala Harris Learned About Power at Howard”  DAVID SIDERS: “Minnesota shows few signs of flipping — despite Trump's best efforts”: “Donald Trump has fixated on Minnesota since his narrow loss to Hillary Clinton there four years ago. But with less than a month until the election, his prospects there are dimming. Joe Biden’s polling lead remains solid. Even after heavy campaign spending and recent visits to the state by the president and top surrogates, Biden was running ahead of Trump by more than 9 percentage points, according to the RealClearPolitics polling average.  “‘I haven’t heard from anyone on the Republican side who’s to some degree confident,’ said Michael Brodkorb, a former deputy chair of the Minnesota Republican Party. ‘I think the best you’ll hear from a Republican in Minnesota is they think that the race is close.’ Four years ago, it was close. Trump lost the state by fewer than 45,000 votes, and immediately after the election began signaling his infatuation with Minnesota. It was one of his few offensive opportunities on the 2020 battleground map.  “If he could limit his losses in the Twin Cities and their suburbs and run up turnout in more rural, conservative reaches of the state, Republicans and Democrats alike believed he had a credible chance of winning — something no Republican has done since Richard Nixon in 1972.  “The president has traveled to Northern Minnesota twice in recent weeks in an effort to juice his base in a region culturally distant from the Democratic-heavy cities Minneapolis and St. Paul. Before largely white crowds in Bemidji in mid-September and Duluth two weeks ago, Trump mocked Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Somali-American and former refugee who represents a Minneapolis-based district. At both events, he said Biden would ‘turn Minnesota into a refugee camp.’”  IN THE BATTLEGROUND STATES -- “Covid crisis colors Wisconsin race,” by Natasha Korecki … “Trump campaign stalls in Pennsylvania,” by Holly Otterbein … “Democrats dominate early voting in Florida,” by Marc Caputo  TRUMP’S WEDNESDAY -- The president will deliver remarks to the Economic Clubs of New York, Florida, Washington, Chicago, Florida and Sheboygan in the Rose Garden at 11 a.m. He will leave the White House at 4:05 p.m. for Des Moines. Trump will arrive at Des Moines International Airport at 5:50 p.m. CDT. He will deliver a campaign speech and then return to Washington at 7:30 p.m. He will arrive at the White House at 10:45 p.m.  ON THE TRAIL … JOE BIDEN will attend a virtual fundraiser.  PLAYBOOK READS  PHOTO DU JOUR: Buddhist monks walk through a flooded pagoda following recent rains from a tropical storm on the outskirts of Phnom Penh, Cambodia, on Wednesday, Oct. 14. | Heng Sinith/AP Photo  TIM ALBERTA in Lansing, Mich.: “‘He’s just so angry all the time’: Trump hemorrhaging support among suburban women”: “Michigan is looking less competitive by the day, and there’s a growing likelihood of Joe Biden blowing out Donald Trump here come November 3. All three Rust Belt states that Trump improbably won in 2016 — Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin — are problematic for the president this year. But Michigan is where things look bleakest.  “His support has diminished among the white working-class. Black turnout appears certain to rebound after a dismal showing in 2016. New laws that allow for early voting and no-excuse absentee balloting are expected to push voter participation to historic levels, with Democrats the expected beneficiary of low-propensity Michiganders flooding the ballot box. But the simplest explanation for the president’s trouble here is that he’s continuing to hemorrhage support from white, college-educated women in the suburbs of Detroit.  “It’s hard to overstate just how badly Trump is performing with this crucial demographic. Over the past several weeks, a raft of internal polls have produced numbers that political professionals here are struggling to comprehend. In Oakland County, the second-biggest voting area in the state, Gongwer reported that Democratic polling shows Biden leading Trump by 27 points; Republicans pushed back with a survey showing Trump down only 18 points. (For reference, Trump lost Oakland County by 8 points in 2016.)”  ACROSS THE POND -- “Netherlands to return to ‘partial lockdown’ amid rising coronavirus cases,” by Eline Schaart: “The Dutch government ordered a partial lockdown Tuesday and changed tack on masks by mandating them in public spaces in a bid to control one of the worst coronavirus infection rates in the EU.  “‘We are going to a partial lockdown,’ Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said during a press conference. ‘That hurts, but it's the only way.’  “The Netherlands had long held out on mandating masks in public, unlike many of its European neighbors, but will now require them in places such as stores and museums. The government ordered all restaurants and bars to temporarily close.”  -- “EU’s top diplomat Borrell, crisis boss Lenarčič to self-isolate,” by Zoya Sheftalovich  A message from Facebook: It’s time for updated regulations to improve privacy standards We continue to take action to build privacy into our products and give people the tools to help manage their privacy like Privacy Checkup and Off-Facebook Activity. But there’s more to do. We support updated internet regulations to improve privacy standards. Read more  DOWN BALLOT … WAPO: “Health care dominates final Virginia Senate debate, as Gade denies wanting to gut ACA,” by Meagan Flynn  MARKETWATCH -- “JPMorgan, Citigroup Signal That Economy Isn’t Out of the Woods,” by WSJ’s David Benoit: “A curious thing happened in the middle of the coronavirus crisis: America’s biggest bank posted a higher profit than it did a year ago, before the pandemic ravaged the economy. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Tuesday that third-quarter profit rose 4% from a year ago, beating Wall Street estimates. Citigroup Inc., too, delivered better-than-expected results.  “Taken together, the two banks’ third-quarter results show that businesses and consumers held up surprisingly well in the months since the pandemic plunged the U.S. into recession. But the leaders of both banks warned that the economy isn’t out of the woods. The results were boosted because the banks didn’t have to put aside as much money to cover future loan losses. But executives said they haven’t yet changed their views that significant losses are looming in the future.  “They continue to hold large reserves for potential losses and predicted that next year unemployment would remain high and more customers could start defaulting on their loans. JPMorgan Chief Executive James Dimon warned that without more public assistance for the economy, it could grow worse.” WSJ  MEDIAWATCH -- The NYT is shuttering its At War blog this week. Announcement from Lauren Katzenberg  -- “Pod Save America” will have former President Barack Obama on a special bonus episode about the election, airing this afternoon  -- Alexis Johnson is joining Vice News as a correspondent in their D.C. bureau. She previously was a digital reporter at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, where her sidelining this summer made headlines.  PLAYBOOKERS  Send tips to Eli Okun and Garrett Ross at [email protected].  TRANSITIONS -- Paula Glover will be president of the Alliance to Save Energy. She currently is president and CEO of the American Association of Blacks in Energy. … Amelia Chassé Alcivar will return to Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan’s administration as chief of staff. She most recently has been comms director for the Republican Governors Association.  WELCOME TO THE WORLD -- Jason Rezaian, WaPo columnist and former Tehran bureau chief, and Yeganeh “Yegi” Rezaian, advocacy associate at the Committee to Protect Journalists, welcomed Justus Raha Rezaian on Saturday in D.C. Raha means “free one” in Persian.  BIRTHDAY OF THE DAY: Tucker Foote, SVP and head of government and corporate affairs for North America at Mastercard. How he’s celebrating: “Takeout at home with my wife, kiddos and an obstinate bulldog. And maybe an IPA or two. Sure, the pandemic is putting a damper on our options, but it also doesn’t get much better than that.” Playbook Q&A  BIRTHDAYS: WaPo’s Bob Costa is 35 … Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.) is 66 … Mike Feldman is 52 … Eli Lehrer, president of R Street … Peter Osnos (h/t son Evan) … former Nixon White House counsel John Dean is 82 … Cody Keenan … POLITICO’s Bianca Quilantan and Erin Aulov … Isabel Milán … Norm Ornstein, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute … Emily Atkin … Leigh Farris, managing director at the Carlyle Group … The Boston Globe’s Victoria McGrane … Ira Shapiro … Melissa Maxfield … Lorie Slass (h/ts Jon Haber) … J.C. Derrick … Jacqui Gifford, editor-in-chief of Travel and Leisure (h/t husband Robert) … Jack Fitzpatrick, reporter at Bloomberg Government … Alan Blinder … Robbie Myers, digital director at HUD, is 34 …  … CNN’s Annie Grayer … Lucy Gardner (h/t Margaret Pritchard) … Brian Hart … Stephen Ohlemacher … Daniel Castro, ITIF VP and director of the Center for Data Innovation (h/t Sintia Radu) … David Lehrer … Zeenat Rahman ... Collin Burton … Chris May, CEO and founder of Quadrant Advisory ... Warren Hendriks is 79 (h/t wife Kathleen) … Dave Leichtman, director of program strategy for Microsoft’s Defending Democracy Program, is 42 ... Tucker Coburn is 23 … Dukes Wooters … Catherine Loper … Marco Acevedo … Eve Lieberman, chief policy adviser and legislative counsel for Colorado Gov. Jared Polis … Bee Bononcini is 69 (h/t husband Dave) … Jason Epstein ... Brian Bond ... Richard Skinner … Anang Mittal … Saul Pink … Jerry Ceppos (h/t daughter Robin)  Follow us on Twitter Anna Palmer @apalmerdc    Jake Sherman @JakeSherman ‘Will you please like me?’