Why does it matter? Aside from apportioning House seats, the Census provides the statistical basis for many governmental funding decisions for the next decade. Each year, roughly $1.5 trillion in federal funds get redistributed according to census data.  With undercounted populations disproportionately made up of Black Americans, Latinos, lower-income households and immigrants, an undercount would mean not only less political representation for those groups, but also fewer resources going to those communities. “It is a political issue, but it’s also just an issue of access to the resources of our country,” said Frey.  What could go wrong? How is this year’s census shaping up differently than past counts? And what are the short- and long-term effects of everything we’re about to encounter? To sort through it all, POLITICO spoke with Frey on Thursday. A transcript of that conversation is below, condensed and edited for length and clarity.  Stanton: You've studied the census. You’re a demographer. Walk us through how a census normally works, and how the pandemic has changed the way the census is working this year.  Frey: Normally, the census is the culmination of 10 years of hard work by people at the Census Bureau and their partners around the country. It’s a huge civic-engagement exercise that people take a lot of pride in. Census Day — April 1st every 10 years, when the census begins to be administered — is a time of celebration and public events and civic leaders getting everybody to fill out their census forms. The results come in, and at the end of December, they are released to the states and used to reapportion House seats and draw congressional and state legislative districts, which is the official reason for the census.  Then, over the following year, more detailed data come out for smaller geographic areas, different populations and subgroups — like where people are living or where populations are growing — and get used by researchers for the next decade. It’s used for all kinds of planning. I’m a demographer, so I’m biased, but I think it’s probably one of the most important government functions there is. There’s usually not a lot of politics around it; it’s usually a feel-good kind of operation. That’s the kind of census that we were hoping to have.  Stanton: I sense there’s a “but” coming.  Frey: Yes. This year, the Census Bureau was hit with a huge impediment: the pandemic. On April 1, Census Day, most people were worried about the pandemic. You saw very little about it in media, because coronavirus cases were popping up, and places were closing down and people were worried about how they were going to get to work or if they were going to have work. The census was not on people’s minds. More importantly, from the operational standpoint, the Census couldn’t conduct the kinds of operations they normally would.  The pandemic really threw a monkey wrench into the whole process. Around the middle of April, the Census Bureau decided that it had to postpone a lot of its follow-up activities. Normally, they do something called NRFU — “non-response follow-ups.” That’s when they follow up with people who did not fill out their census forms. Normally, that would take place between the middle of May and the end of July, which allows the bureau to take the time between the end July and the end of December — when they have to report the results of the census to the president — to deal with all sorts of logistical issues and make sure there weren’t double counts. This is the biggest survey in the world, and they only get one chance every 10 years to get it right.  “This is the biggest survey in the world, and they only get one chance every 10 years to get it right.”  Under normal circumstances, they would have begun that cleanup at the end of July. But in April, they decided that they had to push back everything because of the pandemic: Rather than have the NRFU go from mid-May to the end of July, they shifted it to go from mid-August until the end of October. As a result, they thought they would not be able to report the results to the president by the end of December and requested that Congress give them a four-month lag so that they would have until the end of April.  But a bigger issue came at the end of July, when President Trump came out with a memorandum that said he wanted to figure out how many undocumented immigrants were included in the census counts of each state in order to exclude them for the purposes of congressional reapportionment. Now, if you've been following this issue, you know that he’s been trying to do something like this for a long time. Initially, he wanted to put a question on the 2020 Census, something like: “Are you a citizen or are you not a citizen of the United States?” It got struck down by the Supreme Court and he wasn’t able to do that. This is a way around that to try to accomplish the same goal. It’s probably not legal, and there are many lawsuits about it, but it takes a while for things to go through the courts. So that’s one part of the bombshell.  Then, the other shoe dropped on Aug. 3, when the president said that all of this planning that the Census Bureau did to postpone the delivery of results so that they could ensure the numbers were good and they could follow up with nonresponses — he wants to rush that, and they still need to get those results in to him by the end of December. And now, the Census Bureau has to stop following up with nonresponsive people at the end of September, a month early, which will give them three months to fix everything, instead of the normal five or six. Of course, they cannot do the same kind of diligent job in just three months.  POLITICO NEWSLETTERS The Friday Cover Get POLITICO Magazine's newsletter featuring the best stories of the week and our Friday Cover delivered to your inbox. Sign Up Loading By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or updates from POLITICO and you agree to our privacy policy and terms of service. You can unsubscribe at any time and you can contact us here. This sign-up form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.  People who previously worked at the Census Bureau — including four prior Census directors under both Democratic and Republican administrations — have come out and said it’s not a good idea. You’re going to wind up with results that severely undercount large parts of the population — the “hard to count” populations, including people of color, immigrants, poor people, very young people, renters and a whole list of people who are going to be undercounted and underrepresented in terms of political clout as well as services and government funds, which use the census as a benchmark for the next 10 years. Something like $1.5 trillion of federal funds annually get redistributed on the basis of these census counts. It’s a real problem.  It puts the Census Bureau in a horrible situation. For those of us who analyze data and want to do research—and even more importantly, for people who are planning policy or allocating federal funds—this puts everybody in in a huge predicament. It puts the whole country in a bad situation. ‘A Brush with Catastrophe’: Inside the 2020 Census Meltdown