NEWSOM’s rough road — UC faulted for ‘inappropriate’ admissions — FORD doubles down on CA standards — Department of Labor moves on GIG WORKERS Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ — Would you trade jobs with Gov. Gavin Newsom? If you’re thinking, “yes,” then you may be either a masochist or the mayor of San Diego.  California governors regularly have to navigate deficits and disasters — but the cascading crises of Newsom’s administration have set a new bar. Ask former Gov. Gray Davis, who has some experience with tenure-derailing cataclysms.  “Most governors will experience some form of crisis,” he told us. “Either a substantial recession, wildfires, earthquakes — that comes with the territory. But I think Gov. Newsom clearly wins the prize for having to cope with the most crises at the same time.”  Gov. Gavin Newsom holds his son Dutch while speaking during his inauguration Monday, Jan. 7, 2019, in Sacramento, Calif. | AP Photo/Eric Risberg  Remember Newsom’s triumphant inauguration in January of 2019? A humming economy was fueling a budget surplus and the telegenic new governor — with a nationally covered assist from his adorably intrepid toddler — was pitching California as a progressive lodestar and the counterweight to Trumpism. Weeks later, PG&E declared bankruptcy, setting off a fight that would overshadow Newsom’s first year.  California’s intensifying homelessness crisis was supposed to be the focus of 2020, with Newsom dedicating most of his second State of the State speech to the issue — and then the coronavirus overtook everything (and separately, those vaunted housing production goals collided with political reality). Blackouts, catastrophic wildfires, a president who relishes targeting California and yet whose help Newsom must seek — you name it. POLITICO’s Debra Kahn, Alexander Nieves and Jeremy B. White dug into why Newsom has one of the hardest political gigs in America. It’s our latest feature for The Fifty, a POLITICO series that covers the outsize role governors and mayors are playing in America today.  Despite all those headwinds, Newsom’s constituents are still largely with him. Per the latest Public Policy Institute of California poll, both likely voters and all adults give Newsom sturdy approval ratings of around 60 percent for his governorship in general and his coronavirus handling specifically — markedly better ratings than the Legislature draws, and inversions of President Donald Trump’s continually abysmal California numbers.  But plenty of political peril still looms between Newsom and another term — or beyond. Lockdown fatigue and the prolonged pain of businesses struggling to stay afloat are fueling angst, as is the state’s universally panned unemployment system. Severe housing and homelessness issues that preceded the pandemic could be exacerbated by its economic ravages, as could the state’s nation-leading poverty rate. So, like we said: Do you really want his job?  BUENOS DÍAS, good Wednesday morning. Attorney General Xavier Becerra is testifying to Congress today about California’s new data privacy law, which the California Department of Justice enforces on California businesses. He’ll address the Senate Commerce Committee starting at 7 a.m. PST.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “To this day we have a Commander in Chief of the United States of America who is holding rallies with no masks, because, you see, he has convinced everyone that you’re on one side of his ledger if you wear a mask and you’re on the other side if you don’t. Making value judgments about people who are concerned with not dying.” Sen. Kamala Harris at a Detroit campaign event, on the day America surpassed 200,000 coronavirus deaths (some 15,000 in California).  TWEET OF THE DAY: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez @AOC joins a progressive Feinstein pile-on: “Sen. Feinstein’s protection of the filibuster is unjust & unacceptable. The filibuster wasn’t made w/ purpose. It‘s the result of an accident in rulebook revision & bloomed as a cherished tool of segregationists. Now it empowers minority rule. That’s not ‘special,’ it’s unjust.”  WHERE’S GAVIN? Nothing official announced.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  — ”Vanessa Bryant sues L.A. County sheriff, alleging ‘cover-up’ of Kobe Bryant crash photos,” by the LA Times’ Richard Winton: “[Sheriff Alex] Villanueva has admitted that eight deputies were involved in taking and sharing photos of the remains of Kobe Bryant and other victims at the scene of the crash in Calabasas and that he ordered the photos to be destroyed. He said at least one of the photos was shared outside of the department.”  FIRE AND ICE — ”He fought wildfires while imprisoned. California reported him to Ice for deportation,” by the Guardian’s Sam Levin.  — ”Joshua trees protected under the California Endangered Species Act in historic vote,” by the Palm Springs Desert Sun’s Mark Olalde: “This marks the first time the state law has been used to give protection to a species that is mainly threatened by climate change.”  — "CZU Lightning Complex Fire fully contained," by the Mercury News' Jason Green: "The blaze broke out the morning of Aug. 16 and burned 86,509 acres in San Mateo and Santa Cruz counties, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Prevention. One person was killed and another was injured in the fire."  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  SAN DIEGO SIGH OF RELIEF — “San Diego avoids new coronavirus restrictions while additional counties gain reopening privileges,” by POLITICO’s Victoria Colliver: “San Diego found itself in jeopardy of moving back to purple after seeing an infection spike — believed tied to an outbreak at San Diego State University as students returned to the area for the fall. Local leaders were so frustrated by the possibility that they would have to shut doors again that the county Board of Supervisors considered various options.”  — "Los Angeles County closer to red tier as case rates decline," by the Los Angeles Daily News' David Rosenfeld.  — "A Labor Day-fueled coronavirus surge? ‘Troubling trend,’ but no clear evidence," by the LA Times' Soumya Karlamanga.  NOT-SO-SMOOTH SAILING — "California couple who contracted COVID-19 aboard ship sues Princess Cruises," by Southern California News Group's Scott Schwebke.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK — FORD’S FIGHT: Ford Motor Co. is leaning in to a California-centric fight over vehicle emissions, launching a new statewide ad campaign emphasizing that the automaker is sticking with California’s tougher standards rather than the more relaxed framework advanced by the Trump administration. The divergent rules have both sharpened differences between California and D.C. and divided the industry — and Ford’s new spot calls out rivals Chevrolet, Jeep and Toyota for siding with the Trump administration. The campaign also entails a new website.  GIG CLASH — “DOL releases proposal on gig worker classification under minimum wage, OT law,” by POLITICO’s Rebecca Rainey: “The rulemaking will be closely watched by app-based companies like Uber, Lyft and DoorDash, as their workers are generally classified as independent contractors. Those companies are currently battling a new law in California that would make most of their drivers employees, warning that the change would upend their business model.”  — THE KEY CA LINE: “The Department believes adopting the ABC test” — the standard set out by the California Supreme Court and advanced by AB 5 — “as the [The Fair Labor Standards Act’s] generally applicable standard for distinguishing employees from independent contractors would be unduly restrictive and disruptive to the economy,” the feds wrote.  KAMALA CRED — “GOP senators who play with fire with the Supreme Court will get scorched,” opines the WaPo’s Jennifer Rubin: “The Democratic nominee for vice president, Sen. Kamala D. Harris (D-Calif.), sits on the Judiciary Committee. Do Republicans really want to give the whip-smart, telegenic senator potentially hours of live TV coverage — watch Democrats give her their time so she can rake the nominee over the coals — during which she makes clear just how extreme Trump’s nominee is?”  — “Maxine Waters tells Powell Fed’s emergency actions have ‘fallen badly short’,” by POLITICO’s Victoria Guida.  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  — ”Billionaires Haim and Cheryl Saban ramp up support for Biden and Democrats in Senate races,” by CNBC’s Brian Schwartz.  — ”Facebook Takes Down Fake Pages Created in China Aimed at Influencing U.S. Election,” by the NYT’s Adam Goldman, Sheera Frenkel and Julian E. Barnes.  — "‘Birtherism’ Lies About Kamala Harris Exceed Those About Obama," by the NYT's Davey Alba.  CAMPAIGN MODE  AIR WARS — The nationally funded California House ads are proliferating. In CA-21, a new NRCC spot slams Rep. T.J. Cox for his tax troubles while an ad from the Democratic House Majority PAC assails his opponent, former Rep. David Valadao, for his alignment with Trump. Meanwhile, the DCCC is on TV in CA-25 attacking Rep. Mike Garcia’s pandemic voting record and in CA-48 accusing Orange County Supervisor Michelle Steel of corruption.  PROP 22 — "Californians not sold on treating Uber, Lyft drivers as independent contractors, new poll shows," by the LA Times' Taryn Luna.  PROP 15 — "Nearly half of voters polled back Prop. 15, a property tax overhaul aimed at California businesses," by the LA Times' John Myers.  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  ADMISSIONS SCANDAL FALLOUT — “California auditor: 64 UC students admitted through unfair influence in recent years,” by POLITICO’s Mackenzie Hawkins: “The review came after last year's college admissions bribery scandal implicated a UCLA soccer coach among other officials at a host of prestigious schools across the country. State lawmakers ordered the audit to determine if UC officials were admitting unqualified students due to influential connections.”  — “The dungeon master,” by the Sacramento News & Review’s Raheem Hosseini: “Jail deaths climbed to their highest number last year under Sheriff Scott Jones—a fact the three-term lawman largely withheld from the media.”  — “Inside The Chaos of Immigration Court,” by Gabriel Thompson for Longreads: “The court, especially under Trump, is a battlefield on which the rules are constantly shifting. At the front line of that battle, two conflicting imperatives meet. The first is Constitutional: the right to due process — for an immigrant to receive a full hearing in front of an impartial judge. The second is political: Trump wants to deport asylum seekers quickly.”  — “Climate Disruption Is Now Locked In. The Next Moves Will Be Crucial.,” by the NYT’s John Branch and Brad Plumer: “One hope raised by some experts is that the current onslaught of fires and storms — the death, the destruction, the apocalyptic skies — might motivate people to unite behind calls for action. ‘Those orange skies — I mean, that was scary,’ said Kris May, a climate scientist and coastal engineer in San Francisco.”  — “California Republican lawmaker said his party asked for state pay cuts. It didn’t,” by the Sac Bee’s Wes Venteicher.  — “She tried to rent motel rooms for homeless people. A NIMBY hospital stopped her,” by the LA Times’ Erika D. Smith: “What has gone down in Kern County this year, culminating in a particularly dispiriting Bakersfield City Council meeting this month, is so ridiculous on its face that it’s almost laughable. But it’s serious business that, to a lesser degree, has been replicated all over the state.”  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — “Justice Department, states to meet in possible prelude to Google antitrust suit,” by POLITICO’s Leah Nylen: “Once the Justice Department finishes its complaint against Google, state attorneys general will have a deadline to decide whether they want to join the Justice Department in what could become one of the biggest U.S. antitrust battles in decades.”  — “Tesla’s latest big unveil isn’t a car or truck: It’s the battery tech that could power its future,” by WaPo’s Faiz Siddiqui: “It’s the latest innovation push by the Silicon Valley car builder that has aimed to rewrite the rules on electric vehicles, making them performance-oriented and aspirational in a way that has eluded competitors.”  — “Facebook vows to restrict users if US election descends into chaos,” by the Financial Times’ Hannah Murphy: “Facebook refused to go into detail over its plans for election-related content control, as malicious actors might use that information to proactively work out how to game the system. However, during previous periods of unrest in Sri Lanka and Myanmar, the company took action including reducing the reach of content shared by repeated rule-breakers, and limiting the distribution of ‘borderline content’ that was sensationalist but did not quite breach its hate speech rules. “  HOLLYWOODLAND  — “‘Amazon Room’ Becomes Hot Amenity for Hollywood Homebuyers Amid Pandemic,” by The Hollywood Reporter’s Hadley Meares: “In a COVID-19 world, buyers are looking for a room to store the many packages that arrive, and also a spot for them to decontaminate before opening.”  MIXTAPE  — “Flu shots in the Bay Area: where to get yours, and why they’re important during pandemic,” by the SF Chronicle’s Annie Vashstein.  — “A family called 911 for son’s mental health crisis. They say deputies beat and Tased him to death,” by the LA Times’ Alene Tchekmedyian.  — “Curious mountain lion seen on video watching children play in California neighborhood,” by McClatchy’s Summer Lin.  — “Fire Has Always Defined California. An Artist and Naturalist Reflects on What’s Different This Time,” by Mother Jones’ Delilah Friedler.  BIRTHDAYS  Naomi Seligman … Armaan Pai  TRANSITIONS  — Former San Francisco supervisor David Campos is taking over as chief of staff to SF District Attorney Chesa Boudin.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca  Follow Us NEWSOM’s rough road — UC faulted for ‘inappropriate’ admissions — FORD doubles down on CA standards — Department of Labor moves on GIG WORKERS