Neighborhood coronavirus clusters spotted — Industry City plan dies — RECORDS: Nursing homes violated infection standards Presented by Uber  As the United States surpassed 200,000 deaths from the coronavirus, New York City is entering the fall with increased trepidation about whether and when it will face its own resurgence of the disease. Some new trouble spots: The city is seeing upticks in Covid-19 cases in half a dozen neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens.  In Midwood, Flatbush, Borough Park and Williamsburg in Brooklyn, and Far Rockaway and Kew Gardens in Queens, officials have recorded an increased number of new cases and are warning about illicit large indoor gatherings that may fuel the spread.  “We’re now seeing signals that Covid is spreading in some neighborhoods faster and wider than the rest of the city,” said Health Commissioner Dave Chokski, who outlined plans to target the affected areas with testing, mask and hand sanitizer distribution, and robo-calls and sound trucks urging adherence to social distancing rules.  That’s part of a hyper-local approach intended to stop isolated spikes from becoming bigger ones, and it managed to bring numbers back down after a recent uptick in Sunset Park. But the latest problems are more widespread. The spikes in southern Brooklyn have risen to the level of an official coronavirus cluster, dubbed the Ocean Parkway Cluster, the Health Department said Tuesday evening. New cases there have tripled since the beginning of August, and have also tripled in Far Rockaway and Williamsburg, while they’ve doubled in Kew Gardens. Collectively, the neighborhoods make up 20 percent of all cases citywide. Without action, officials say the increases could spread to other areas.  Citywide, the infection rate remains just over 1 percent. The reopening of most city schools and indoor dining next week will add more risk factors to the mix.”When these second waves occur, they always start as small problems that expanded to big ones,” said Jay Varma, public health adviser to Mayor Bill de Blasio. “So our aggressive approaches are absolutely critical to prevent that from happening.”  IT’S WEDNESDAY. Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected] , or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? In Albany and the New York City area with no public events scheduled.  WHERE’S BILL? Holding a media availability.  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  “A DAUNTING HURDLE still remains before New York City schools reopen. After a summer of last-minute scrambles to ready city schools for in-person learning, what could be the toughest challenge yet is the recruitment, hiring and training of thousands of new teachers in just over a week. Between 6,000 and 7,000 extra teachers will have to be in place when middle and high schools open Oct. 1 to staff a dizzying array of remote and in-person courses, United Federation of Teachers president Michael Mulgrew told the Daily News. ‘It’s gonna go right down to the wire. It’s not going to be easy,’ he said. City officials, who pushed back the start of in-person school last week to address the staffing crisis, have already committed to 4,500 new staff for elementary schools' reopening Sept. 29, and acknowledged they’ll need even more for middle and high schools. They haven’t shared what that number is.” New York Daily News’ Michael Elsen-Rooney  — Online classes may be as large as 68 students.  — Some students still lack the iPads or laptops they need for online learning.  — The Education Department's deputy chancellor of school planning and design plans to take a leave of absence to work on Joe Biden’s presidential campaign.  — De Blasio sparked confusion by claiming that students will not have to take online classes while they’re physically in school, even though several schools have already announced plans to do so.  BROOKLYN’S MUNICIPAL building will be renamed after late Supreme Court justice and borough native Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Tuesday. “It’s personal for all of us as New Yorkers. It’s personal for so many people who are inspired by her as a guiding light and an example,” de Blasio said at a press briefing. “We want to make sure we honor her in every conceivable way, and especially in the borough that she came from.” Ginsburg, who died on Friday at the age of 87, grew up in Midwood and attended James Madison High School. The nearly century-old Municipal Building on Joralemon Street in downtown Brooklyn will now bear her name. POLITICO’s Erin Durkin  “THE NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL is considering several bills that would aid restaurants as they try to recover from the economic hit brought on by the new coronavirus pandemic, including one that would make sidewalk and curbside street dining permanent. Mayor Bill de Blasio announced in July that the Open Restaurants program, a key feature of the city’s effort to support restaurants financially during the pandemic, would be extended until Oct. 31. The program allows restaurants and bars to expand outdoor seating in sidewalks, city streets and parking lots to increase revenue while maintaining social-distancing guidelines intended to curb the spread of the virus. As part of the legislation introduced by City Councilman Antonio Reynoso, restaurants and bars would also be allowed to use propane heaters, which are currently banned in New York City. The Department of Transportation would also be required to set up an online application process that can be used by restaurateurs to certify their establishments for outdoor dining, according to the bill.” Wall Street Journal’s Emma Tucker  — De Blasio says he’ll make a decision “very soon” on extending outdoor dining past Oct. 31.  “NEW YORK CITY’S Civilian Complaint Review Board closed 804 fewer cases in the fiscal year ending June 30 compared to 2019, as average investigation times increased for the fifth consecutive year, according to the latest Mayor’s Management Report. It now takes CCRB investigators nearly 11 months to complete an investigation that results in a substantiated complaint, compared to about nine months in fiscal year 2019 and less than six months in 2016, the report shows. The increase occurred even as the agency received 639 fewer complaints … CCRB officials blamed the latest delays on the impact of COVID-19, uncooperative cops and a police department that has stymied their ability to view body camera footage as part of misconduct investigations.” Queens Eagle’s David Brand and Rachel Vick      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  “AS COVID-19 ravaged New York nursing homes, 62 of the facilities were cited for violations of infection-control standards, which are crucial to stopping the spread of viruses and other deadly diseases, federal and state data showed. A USA TODAY Network New York review found the most serious violations revealed how poorly trained workers mishandled COVID-19 contaminated food trays, linens, gowns and mop buckets, potentially spreading the respiratory disease among countless frail and elderly residents. Many nursing homes also failed to isolate infected residents, including cases of healthy residents left to live with roommates who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. One facility was cited for potentially exposing 89 residents to COVID-19 due to the violations. And amid widespread personal protective equipment shortages, one nursing home was cited for keeping its stockpile locked up improperly, endangering workers who complained they lacked masks, gloves and gowns, according to federal and state records reviewed by USA TODAY Network New York.” USA Today Network’s David Robinson  “A WEALTHY cosmetics heir and longtime fixture in New York State fundraising politics is donating mightily to a Super PAC that has targeted a half-dozen state Senate Democrats for defeat. Ronald Lauder, a billionaire heir to the Estee Lauder cosmetics fortune, has dropped $1.7 million into the operations of the new independent expenditure group called Safe Together New York, new state records show. Organizers of Safe Together New York say their goal is to simply highlight to voters that Democrats have been in charge of the Legislature and responsible for changes in criminal justice laws, such as relaxing bail requirements in many criminal cases, that have contributed to spikes in crime rates...  "The group’s calculus does not appear to be the return of Republicans to power in the state Senate, which would be a steep climb anyway in blue state New York in a presidential election year. Rather, Democrats believe the group is trying to prevent them from attaining super majority status in the 63-member chamber, which would have Senate Democrats joining Assembly Democrats in a potentially potent alliance during state budget talks or in the crucial post-Census process in 2022, in which lawmakers will re-draw their own district lines as well as the districts for all New York members of the U.S. Congress.” Buffalo News’ Tom Precious  “HIS DEATH has roiled Rochester: The city’s mayor, Lovely Warren, has since fired the chief of police and suspended the seven officers involved in the encounter; the state attorney general’s office has opened its own investigation and a grand jury will now examine the case. Mr. Prude’s life was enigmatic, dotted by pain, loss and hardship . His playful interactions with his friends hid the fractures snaking through his life: the deaths of two of his brothers, his anguish over a nephew’s recent suicide and his increasing reliance on drugs to cope with the loss — Mr. Prude had been home in their shared apartment when the teenager shot himself last fall, friends said. He also had just been kicked out of the home he shared with his sister, after a spate of paranoid outbursts had frightened her.” New York Times’ Robert Chiarito and Sarah Maslin Nir  — “A GROUP of Rochester protesters announced they are suspending their demonstrations for now. Free The People Roc’s Tuesday statement: ‘As a result of the thousands of you who have marched, rallied, and occupied City Hall, we’re winning justice for Daniel Prude and his family. On Sunday, Attorney General Tish James announced a new policy to release body cam footage in police brutality cases directly to the public, and today Mayor [Lovely] Warren and RPD [acting] Chief Mark Simmons were subpoenaed as part of an investigation into Daniel’s murder.’ ‘Our organizers have decided to end Occupy City Hall and plan new actions in the coming weeks. We recognize that taking care of our collective health and wellbeing is a revolutionary act. Systems of oppression want to see us tired and beaten down. But we won’t give them that satisfaction. We urge those of you who have been out with us every night to rest, reflect, and recharge for the next set of actions. Our movement is just beginning.’” Democrat & Chronicle Staff  “A FORMER CAMPAIGN AIDE to Albany Mayor Kathy Sheehan was arrested Tuesday and charged with stealing tens of thousands of dollars from her campaign accounts, including thefts that were made using credit cards and forged checks, according to court records. Scott R. Solomon, 34, who last year leased the recently shuttered Siro’s Restaurant in Saratoga Springs, turned himself in to State Police at the Capitol on Tuesday and was released after his arraignment. Solomon had limited involvement with Siro's this past summer but had held the establishment’s liquor license in his name. Solomon's attorney, Andrew Safranko, could not immediately be reached for comment. Sheehan and her chief of staff, David Galin, gave sworn statements to investigators outlining how Solomon had been enlisted as a fundraising consultant for the campaign in October 2017 and had allegedly systematically misused a campaign credit card to make nearly $22,000 in unauthorized personal expenses.” Times Union’s Brendan J. Lyons  “TRAVELERS from Arizona, Minnesota, Nevada, Rhode Island and Wyoming will now have to self-quarantine for 14 days after arriving in New York. The states were added to New York’s coronavirus quarantine list today. No locations were removed this week. The full quarantine list now includes 35 states and territories.” Syracuse.com’s Kevin Tampone  #UpstateAmerica: Forget pumpkin spice; it’s grape pie season. The festival in Naples, N.Y. — Grape Pie Capital of the World — is canceled, but you can definitely order one.  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      ... 2020 VISION ...  “FORMER NEW YORK mayor Mike Bloomberg and his team have raised more than $16 million to pay the court fines and fees of nearly 32,000 Black and Hispanic Florida voters with felony convictions, an effort aimed at boosting turnout for Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. The money will go to fund a program organized by the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition to pay the fines, fees and restitution costs for former prisoners who are already registered to vote in Florida but barred by law from participating in the election because of those outstanding debts. Bloomberg, who has committed at least $100 million to electing Biden in the state, raised the money from individuals and foundations over the past week, his advisers said. He saw the donations as a more cost-effective way of adding votes to the Democratic column than investing money to persuade voters who already have the right to vote, a Bloomberg memo said.” Washington Post’s Michael Scherer  “A FEDERAL JUDGE in Manhattan granted a request for relief on Monday from 16 named plaintiffs, including candidates and voters, to ensure that the United States Postal Service delivers absentee ballots on time across the country, and to United States citizens abroad, calling the right to vote “too vital a value in our democracy to be left in a state of suspense in the minds of voters weeks before a presidential election.” Citing the expected surge in absentee ballot use due to the risk posed by the ongoing global pandemic, Victor Marrero, a judge in the Southern District of New York, said the plaintiffs successfully argued that new policy changes implemented by President Donald Trump and his handpicked Postmaster General, Louis DeJoy, were causing service delivery delays that would interfere with the delivery of election mail. The policy changes, part of DeJoy’s “transformative initiative,” include reduction of overtime pay, elimination of mail sorting machines, and directing mail trucks to leave as scheduled even if that meant leaving mail behind for delivery another day.” WNYC’s Brigid Bergin  TRUMP'S NEW YORK  “PRESIDENT TRUMP’s politicized campaign to label New York City an ‘anarchist jurisdiction’ broadened on Tuesday, with the head of the Environmental Protection Agency threatening to move its regional headquarters out of Lower Manhattan. The E.P.A. administrator, Andrew R. Wheeler, suggested that local agency officials had become so fearful of New York streets that they are now considering moving offices. The root of those fears? Mr. Wheeler cited three-month old protests against police brutality, and a small, recent protest against another federal agency, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, at a nearby building. That demonstration was quickly shut down by the police.” New York Times’ Dana Rubinstein and Alan Feuer  — The city’s status as an anarchist jurisdiction was news to the anarchists .      AROUND NEW YORK  — Family members of incarcerated individuals are begging the state to better guard prisons and jails from new waves of Covid-19.  — The city’s souvenir shops are suffering from a lack of tourism.  — The unemployment rate in most of the state’s metro areas dipped below 10 percent in August for the first time since March.  — A transit worker who lost her baby is among employees suing the MTA for better protections for pregnant workers.  — Hospital chaplains are feeling the monumental toll of coronavirus.  — Comedy clubs are pushing for the chance to reopen.  — A white woman who allegedly threw a bottle and yelled a racial slur at a Black runner in Queens has been arrested on hate crime charges.  — A bill under consideration in the City Council would include some rent stabilized buildings in the city’s emissions limits.  — The subway saboteur who allegedly caused a train derailment by throwing debris on the tracks is responsible for nearly $1 million in damage.  — LISTEN: Rep. Chris Jacobs is trying to take “a whack at New York’s ‘Scaffold Law.’”  — The MTA will formally ban defecating on the subway.  SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: Kristen Silverberg (h/t Dina Powell McCormick) ... Elise Jordan … NYT’s Mike Schmidt … Darryl Nirenberg, partner at Steptoe (h/t Kathy King) … CNN producer Greg Wallace … Joshua Foer is 38 … David Harris, CEO of the American Jewish Committee, is 71 … John Tamny is 51 … POLITICO’s Bernie Becker … Sean Spicer is 49 (h/t Katie Armstrong) … Ana Marie Cox … Julia Ainsley … Abby Glassberg … James Howard Fitzgerald … Chinua Green … Maria Karl … Armaan Pai  SPOTTED: Rep. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-N.Y.) and boyfriend Riley Roberts eating outside at Joselito Casa de Comidas on Tuesday evening. (h/t POLITICO Playbook)  MEDIAWATCH — New York Focus, a new news organization covering local news from a left-leaning perspective, is preparing to launch in the first week of October. The outlet, led by Brooklyn resident Akash Mehta, will be largely operated by recent college grads and current students, with four staffers and about half a dozen freelancers. They’ve received a grant from the Open Society Foundation for at least $50,000 and another $15,000 from the Marquit-Grieser Fund. They seek to “publish investigations of New York’s politicians and power brokers, explain under-examined legislation and political processes and document nascent popular movements.” Their advisory board includes Ross Barkan, Sarah Leonard, Andrew Hsiao and Joel Lovell.  -- Per Talking Biz News: “Katie Robertson has been named a media reporter at The New York Times. Previously, she held the post of senior staff editor, business desk at the Times.”  MAKING MOVES -- Sunwoo Oh will be a staff associate at the Columbia Justice Lab. She previously was a senior research and program associate at NYU’s Brennan Center for Justice. (h/t POLITICO Playbook)  ENGAGED -- Alexander Massara, an economist at the International Monetary Fund and a Treasury alum, on Saturday proposed to Melissa Sowerwine, a manager of business development at federal contractor IDS International and a Teneo alum. Pic  RONN TOROSSIAN PROFILE -- “Meet The Flack Who Bridges Trumpworld And Big Porn: A Mueller witness’s firm runs interference for Pornhub, accused of profiting from rape,” by The American Conservative’s Declan Leary      REAL ESTATE  THE DEVELOPERS behind rezoning plans for the sprawling Industry City complex in Sunset Park have decided to withdraw their application after a yearslong fight over the waterfront swath of Brooklyn. Backers of the rezoning were attempting to convince the City Council to greenlight the plan over the opposition of local Council Member Carlos Menchaca, arguing the rezoning would allow for thousands of new jobs and millions in tax revenue that would help further the city’s economic recovery. But the development team found “the leadership needed to approve this development failed to emerge,” CEO Andrew Kimball said in a statement to POLITICO Tuesday night. “In late July, it became clear that a number of convergent factors were forcing us to rethink our request to have the property rezoned,” Kimball said. “Now, despite strong support from a growing number of Council Members, the City Planning Commission, a broad coalition of Sunset Park residents and small businesses, and members of the clergy, as well as civic, business and labor leaders and many others who care about New York and its future, it is clear that the current political environment and a lack of leadership precludes a path forward for our rezoning proposal.” POLITICO’s Janaki Chadha    Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold Neighborhood coronavirus clusters spotted — Industry City plan dies — RECORDS: Nursing homes violated infection standards