TRUMP and BIDEN address climate change — CROWFOOT: ‘I wish science agreed’ with Trump — FACEBOOK announces climate science push — ANN GETTY dead at 79 — KAMALA HARRIS returns to CA Presented by The Great Courses Plus  THE BUZZ — IT TOOK CALIFORNIA’S WILDFIRES, DISASTER AND DEVASTATION, but climate change has finally made it to the A-list of both presidential campaigns, as Democratic nominee Joe Biden and President Donald Trump Monday set out starkly different visions on that key issue.  And as wildfires continue to scorch the state, and death tolls continue to grow, Trump hit McClellan Park, Calif. to meet with Gov. Gavin Newsom and state and federal officials in a two-hour stopover.  Trump, taking questions from local reporters, defended himself against critics who said he waited weeks to mention California fires, insisting he “immediately” responded to calls from Newsom. (He called our question about his delay on California response “nasty” — more on that later.) And the president also repeatedly insisted that the state’s troubles are rooted not in climate change but in forest management.  FIVE TRUMP VISIT TAKEAWAYS:  — TRUMP’S KEY MESSAGE: “I love California. I love all of our first responders and FEMA. We’ve been working very well with Gavin. We've been working very well with the state. We approved emergency declarations. And hopefully, it'll be under control fairly soon.”  — ‘RAKE THE LEAVES’ REDUX? “When trees fall down, after a short period of time — about 18 months — they become very dry. They become, really, like a matchstick. And ... there’s no more water pouring through, and they become very, very — well, they just explode. They can explode.  “Also, leaves — when you have years of leaves, dried leaves, on the ground, it just sets it up. It’s really a fuel for a fire. So they have to do something about it. So we talk about forest management. And I’ve been talking about it for a long time — that they have to do that.”  — NEWSOM MEETING THE MOMENT: If some progressives wanted a Gavin vs. Donald smackdown, they didn’t get it. Newsom made his case — respectfully. “We can agree to disagree on the politics,” Newsom told Trump, “but one thing is fundamental: 57 percent of the land in this state is federal and 3 percent is state forests.” Read the full transcript of the meeting.  He later told reporters, according to pool report audio via the Chico Enterprise-Record: “I wanted the president to know that we have established an engagement we would like to build on — to state in a way that wasn’t trying to take a cheap shot, wasn’t trying to score political points, but to make the argument, we believe in climate change out here. We don’t believe it just because science says it; we observe it, we experience it, and that was an opportunity to remind him of a point he’s very familiar with, but to do so in an honest and forthright way.”  — CROWFOOT TOE-TO-TOE WITH TRUMP: The real drama came when California Secretary of Natural Resources Wade Crowfoot challenged Trump. His blunt argument to the president turned into the must-see moment of the day.  Crowfoot: “If we ignore that science and sort of put our head in the sand and think it's all about vegetation management, we’re not going to succeed together protecting Californians.”  Trump: “It’ll start getting cooler. You just watch.”  Crowfoot: “I wish science agreed with you.”  Trump: “Well, I don’t think science knows, actually.”  — WAS THERE A PHOTO OP? Nope, no “shake hands and act like friends” moments between the governor and president that could end up in a campaign ad. POTUS seemed resigned to the optics of the day: "As far as I'm concerned, I'd be OK with it. But maybe the state would rather not have that, and that's OK with me, too."  President Donald Trump listens as California Gov. Gavin Newsom speaks during a briefing at Sacramento McClellan Airport, in McClellan Park, Calif., Monday, Sept. 14, 2020. | AP Photo/Andrew Harnik  THE COMING STORM — “Climate clash hits 2020 race as California burns,’’ by POLITICO’s Kelsey Tamborrino, Caitlyn Oprysko and Carla: Trump and Biden “offered a striking split screen on the role of climate change in raging wildfires on the West Coast, with each staking out dramatically different positions on what has caused the blazes that have consumed vast amounts of acreage in California in recent weeks.  “In dueling events, Biden linked the blazes — as well as deadly heat waves and a recent string of hurricanes and disastrous flooding elsewhere — to climate change, while Trump dismissed the established science that shows global temperatures will continue to climb because of rising greenhouse gases from the use of fossil fuels.  AND THERE’S THIS, via POLITICO’s Colby Bermel: “Trump visit punctuates growing divide over main cause of historic wildfires in Western states” — “California seems helpless to break a cycle of catastrophic wildfires as it suffers another year of massive destruction, and the fault lines over climate change and forest management are growing as the fall campaign season gets underway.”  FACT-CHECK: “Trump downplays climate change, says California must thin forests. What he got wrong,” by the Sac Bee’s Dale Kasler.  BUENOS DÍAS, good Tuesday morning. Kamala Harris hits Fresno Tuesday for her first California event in months. A major focus: climate change and the wildfire devastation, via YourCentralValley.com  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “I got a call from the governor immediately [when the fires began], I called him ... and on that call I declared it an emergency. … So don’t tell me about not doing it, because that was immediate. That included FEMA coming here … and everything else, so that’s a nasty question.” A visibly irritated Trump pushes back on our “nasty” question about the three weeks it took him to comment, or tweet, about California’s wildfires. Watch the video via Carla’s Twitter feed.  TWEET OF THE DAY (posted after Trump meeting): Gavin Newsom @GavinNewsom: “The hots are getting hotter. The dries are getting drier. The evidence is all around us -- climate change is REAL.”  BONUS TOTD: “It always feels good when readers connect deeply with your work.” The SF Chronicle’s Alexei Koseff @akoseff, reacting to a reader who really wanted to know where Newsom got his jacket.  WHERE’S GAVIN? Nothing official announced.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Don’t be stagnant, keep your mind active with The Great Courses Plus . Learn at your own pace with the ability to stream lectures like the Art of Investing anytime, anywhere. Tap into an expansive selection of over 13,000 video streaming lectures from some of the world’s greatest minds. Learning should be enjoyable, so start learning today with The Great Courses Plus!  TOP TALKERS  ‘BLOOD ON MY HANDS’ — “A Whistleblower Says Facebook Ignored Global Political Manipulation,” by BuzzFeed’s Craig Silverman, Ryan Mac and Pranav Dixit: A leaked memo is “the story of Facebook abdicating responsibility for malign activities on its platform that could affect the political fate of nations outside the United States or Western Europe. It's also the story of a junior employee wielding extraordinary moderation powers that affected millions of people without any real institutional support, and the personal torment that followed.”  WILL FEINSTEIN FALTER? — “Progressives fret Feinstein won’t be tough enough in handling Biden judicial nominees,” by the LA Times’ Jennifer Haberkorn: “Fueling progressives’ concern is [Sen. Dianne] Feinstein’s refusal to say whether she would give Republicans power to block appellate appointees through a Senate practice known as withholding blue slips.”  STUNNING ALLEGATIONS — “‘Like an Experimental Concentration Camp’: Whistleblower Complaint Alleges Mass Hysterectomies at ICE Detention Center,” by Law&Crime’s Jerry Lambe.  POLICE PLAY POLITICS — “How politics and police unions stopped bills to hold bad cops accountable,” by the LA Times’ George Skelton: “A major police reform bill was quietly killed by the Assembly speaker without a house vote on the last night of the legislative session. He used an ages-old tactic aimed at sparing politically vulnerable lawmakers from casting a perilous vote.”  CALIFORNIA ON FIRE  THE LATEST — ”More than 3.2 million acres have burned across California this year; death toll reaches at least 24,” by the LA Times’ Alex Wigglesworth, Taryn Luna and Phil Willon.  THE DEBATE — “Is climate change worsening California fires, or is it poor forest management? Both, experts say,” by SF Chronicle’s J.D. Morris: “Tree problems and a changing environment are not the only explanations for the fiery crisis, but they are an important part of the equation — and one that will continue to challenge the state in the months and years ahead.”  ADDING SNOW TO THE FIRE — “Extraordinary heat, rare summer snow brought unprecedented West Coast firestorms,” by the LA Times’ Rong-Gong Lin and Joseph Serna.  — “Because of fire, West Coast has four of the world’s 10 most polluted cities,” by LA Times’ Ruben Vives, Marisa Gerber and Molly Hennessy-Fiske.  CORONAVIRUS UPDATES  GOOD NEWS? — “Californians are testing positive for COVID-19 at the lowest rate on record,” by the LA Times’ Laura J. Nelson.  — "Bay Area coronavirus cases drop significantly from peak of summer surge," by SF Chronicle's Catherine Ho.  CULINARY CRISIS — “‘Extinction event for restaurants’ anticipated as federal loan money runs out,” by SF Chronicle’s Janelle Bitker and Justin Phillips.  SCHOOLS STAY SHUT — “School campuses in affluent areas plan to open quicker than those in poor Latino ones” by the LA Times’ Paloma Esquivel, Howard Blume and Andrew J. Campa.  THE FIFTY: Governors and mayors have never mattered more to the future of the nation, and The Fifty, a new series from POLITICO, takes you inside the role they’re playing in the pandemic and more.  THE TRUMP ERA  SENSELESS CENSUS — ”'Beyond negligent': Census workers describe logistical nightmare as deadline approaches,” by NBC’s Dartunorro Clark: “The agency announced last month that it would end all of its counting efforts on Sept. 30, a month earlier than previously expected. And although a federal judge recently ordered the bureau to temporarily stop following its plan to wind down operations early, a leaked internal Census Bureau document sent to the House Oversight Committee and obtained by NBC News this month warned that the agency already has far less time and fewer resources to review the data than in previous years.”  PRESIDENTIAL PURSUIT  HARRIS HISTORY — “Where Kamala Harris’ Political Imagination Was Formed,” by Slate’s Tessa Rissacher and Scott Saul: Rainbow Sign was “where she glimpsed a vision of Black empowerment, orchestrated by middle-class Black women with working-class roots—women who had broken professional barriers and were now trying to mentor a new generation of young Black people to find a vocation for themselves and transform the institutions they joined.”  CAMPAIGN MODE  PROP 22 ENDORSEMENT — “Editorial: Prop. 22 would stop the assault on gig firms and workers,” by the Mercury News and East Bay Times editorial boards.  AGAINST PROP 21 — ”Editorial: Vote no on Prop. 21, a rent control retread unimproved by age,” by the SF Chronicle Editorial Board: “While Prop. 21’s proponents point to the real threat of coronavirus-related evictions, the underlying problem is the economic downturn’s effect on tenants’ ability to pay their current rents — not the future rent increases that control policies are meant to restrict.”  POLITICO’S CALIFORNIA BALLOT TRACKER: No state does ballot initiatives quite like California, and interest groups are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to sway voters. It’s all here in POLITICO’s guide to California’s 2020 ballot initiatives.  GAVINLAND  JERRY’S TAKE — “Jerry Brown on a California Exodus: ‘Tell Me: Where Are You Going to Go?’” by NYT’s Adam Nagourney: “Mr. Brown declined to share what, if any, advice he might have for Mr. Newsom in managing the twin crises plaguing the state. But he did have some ideas for what he might say to Mr. Trump, who was set to arrive on Monday to tour the fire damage, if he were still governor.”  CALIFORNIA AND THE CAPITOL CORRIDOR  POLICE BRUTALITY— “In Vallejo, police encounters often turn violent,” by SF Chronicle’s Otis R. Taylor Jr.: “Police stops that were initiated for minor infractions, or for unclear reasons, often turn into violent encounters in Vallejo, a Chronicle investigation found.”  — “LA Sheriff to politicians: emphasize trust in justice system,” by the AP’s Stefanie Dazio: Sheriff Alex Villanueva “claims the criminal justice system is biased against people of color, saying his department is committed to thorough investigations, including of its own employees.”  DAVIS DISPLACEMENT — “A $1.1 billion project will mean thousands of jobs in Sacramento. Will renters be displaced?” by the Sac Bee’s Theresa Clift: “In the two and a half years since UC Davis announced the Aggie Square “technology and innovation campus,” anxiety has been growing that it will displace longtime low- and middle-income families in the surrounding neighborhoods of Oak Park and Tahoe Park.”  DETENTION PRICE TAG — “‘Insane’: At up to $2 million per youth, skyrocketing costs at juvenile halls renew push for closures,” by the SF Chronicle’s Jill Tucker and Joaquin Palomino: “Based on the current population in juvenile hall, the annual cost to incarcerate a single youth could push past $2 million in San Francisco as staffing and spending remain mostly constant despite the dramatic decrease in young offenders.”  PROMISES BROKEN — “Some Bay Area homeless sweeps continue, despite coronavirus moratorium,” by the Mercury News’ Marisa Kendall.  A message from The Great Courses Plus:  SILICON VALLEYLAND  — “Oracle won the TikTok sweepstakes. It's inheriting its political problems, too,” by POLITICO’s Cristiano Lima: “Oracle has spent years pushing to curtail the power of Silicon Valley’s social media giants. Now a pending deal with TikTok may force the cloud computing company to face the same tough critiques over how it protects users and polices content.”  — “SF had a $6 billion vision for Central SoMa. Then the pandemic hit, and tech pulled back,” by the SF Chronicle’s Roland Li and J.K. Dineen: “A delay or collapse in new construction jeopardizes not only the potential tax windfall, but also the city’s expected $2 billion in community benefits through 2040, funded mostly by fees that developers are set to pay in exchange for permission to build taller buildings.”  FACEBOOK TO REACH NET ZERO EMISSIONS THIS YEAR, via POLITICO Europe’s Laura Kayali: The tech giant announced its global operations will achieve net zero carbon emissions and run only on renewable energy this year. It also aims to reach net zero emissions for its value chain in 2030, including by using carbon removal technology. The company won't use offsetting to reach this goal.  A new Climate Science Information Center: Facebook will launch a "dedicated space" on its platform, modeled after its COVID-19 Information Center, to provide users with facts from the world's leading climate organizations. The initiative will first launch in France, Germany, the U.K. and the U.S.  — “Tech mega-deal: Nvidia will buy chip designer for $40 billion,” by the Mercury News’ George Avalos.  HOLLYWOODLAND  — “Kevin Brockman Exits WarnerMedia PR Post,” by the Hollywood Reporter’s Lesley Goldberg.  — “NewFilmmakers L.A. And AMPAS Set Virtual Program For Latinx & Hispanic Cinema Festival,” by Deadline’s Dino-Ray Ramos.  CANNABIS COUNTRY  — “August Complex fire threatens communities in 'Emerald Triangle’ marijuana region,” by the Santa Rosa Press-Democrat’s Julie Johnson.  MIXTAPE  — “Please don’t call the cops on pop-ups,” by SF Chronicle’s Soleil Ho.  — "PG&E error at power plant may help explain California’s rolling blackouts," by SF Chronicle's J.D. Morris.  — “One San Diego school district drops an online program over offensive content; another sticks with it,” by the San Diego Union-Tribune’s Kristen Taketa.  — “California Secede? One Group Got a Key Approval Last Week to Try,” by San Jose Inside’s Janice Bitters.  IN MEMORIAM  — “Ann Getty, SF society figure and philanthropist, dies at 79,” by SF Chronicle’s Sam Whiting: “Getty was particularly close to Governor Gavin Newsom, going back to his friendship and business partnership with her son Billy Getty in Plumpjack, a wine store then a restaurant then a lodge at Squaw Valley.”  — Jorge Nuñez, 60, a longtime Democratic party community activist, died Saturday of cancer in Los Angeles. Nuñez, a native of El Salvador, worked alongside many party elected officials for the rights of undocumented immigrants. Here’s a tweet from former state Senate Pro Tem Kevin de Leόn memorializing Nunez and his contributions to his community.  CALIFORNIA POLICY IS ALWAYS CHANGING: Know your next move. From Sacramento to Silicon Valley, POLITICO California Pro provides policy professionals with the in-depth reporting and tools they need to get ahead of policy trends and political developments shaping the Golden State. To learn more about the exclusive insight and analysis this subscriber-only service offers, click here.  A message from The Great Courses Plus: Are you an inquisitively curious individual that loves learning? Join a community of life-long learners, and learn more about any topic with The Great Courses Plus. Stream thousands of videos by some of this world’s brightest minds. From the Art of Investing to the Theory of Everything, quench your thirst for knowledge with courses designed for the endlessly curious cat. With The Great Courses Plus, you’ll enjoy being able to learn anytime, anywhere at your own pace. Now there’s nothing keeping you from starting your educational journey. Learn now with The Great Courses Plus !  Want to make an impact? POLITICO California has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Golden State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness amongst this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].    Follow us on Twitter Carla Marinucci @cmarinucci    Jeremy B. White @JeremyBWhite    POLITICO California @politicoca TRUMP and BIDEN address climate change — CROWFOOT: ‘I wish science agreed’ with Trump — FACEBOOK announces climate science push — ANN GETTY dead at 79 — KAMALA HARRIS returns to CA