Even more borrowing in the budge Presented by Masterworks  Good Wednesday morning!  Remember when there was brief panic in Morristown when USPS was spotted removing mailboxes, but it turned out it was to upgrade them?  State Sen. James Beach has proposed a new use for those mailboxes — or at least ones like them.  On Monday, Beach proposed a bill (S2974) that would allow the state or counties to purchase or lease decommissioned mailboxes and use them as ballot drop boxes.  The ballot drop boxes the state purchased for the primary cost more than $5,000 each, so I imagine that could save money. But it would depend on the Postal Service being willing to sell them. And, of course, on security.  If the post office is getting rid of old mailboxes to replace them with more secure “anti-fishing” boxes, can you depend on them for election integrity? I don’t know the answer to this question, because Beach did not return my call and the text of the bill is not yet available to the public.  WHERE’S MURPHY?: In Trenton for a coronavirus press conference at 1 p.m. Media: “Dean Obeidallah Show” on SiriusXM at 7:15 p.m.  CORONAVIRUS TRACKER: 457 newly-diagnosed cases for a total of 200,580. Seven more deaths for a total of 14,285 (not counting 1,791 presumed deaths)  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “ I didn’t cave. I’m living in the realities of COVID right now … It’s basically everyone’s all-in right now. If you’re in it together, you’re better than when you’re on your own.” — Senate President Steve Sweeney  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: U.S. Rep. Tom Malinowski, MSNJ’s Marlene Kalayilparampil, bank exec Ryan Peene  A message from Masterworks: You don’t have to take big risks to make big returns. Take it from us, day trading doesn’t work—boost your portfolio stability with art, one of the oldest and largest uncorrelated assets. For the first time ever, Masterworks makes it possible for anyone to invest in iconic works of art by the likes of Banksy, Kaws, Basquiat (and more) at a starting point everyone can afford. Skip the waitlist here.      WHAT TRENTON MADE    PATH TO PROGRESS II: FISCAL BOOGALOO — Committees advance $32.7B budget as Democrats promise to pursue cost-cutting measures, by POLITICO’s Katherine Landergan: The Senate and Assembly budget committees approved a $32.7 billion nine-month spending plan Tuesday, but not before a lengthy discussion on taxes during which the two Democratic chairs indicated they‘d pursue cost-cutting reforms in the near future. “There is a point in time where we need to stop taxing and to do reforms,” Senate Budget Chair Paul Sarlo (D-Bergen) said. “We're at that tipping point.” The budget bill, NJ S2021 (20R) and several accompanying measures were all approved along party lines, although state Sen. Dawn Addiego (D-Burlington), who switched parties from Republican to Democrat in 2019, voted against a proposal to increase the corporate business tax. Democratic lawmakers late Monday introduced a $32.7 billion, nine-month state budget proposal that increases taxes on millionaires from 8.97 percent to 10.75 percent and reinstates a 2.5-percent surcharge on corporations that will be phased-out in a few years. It also boosts the state’s surplus to more than $2.5 billion and calls for $4.5 billion in borrowing to help close a revenue shortfall. The spending plan also restores a number of programs Gov. Phil Murphy did not include in the budget he presented to lawmakers.  — Murphy administration agrees to $4.5B in borrowing, by POLITICO’s Katherine Landergan: Gov. Phil Murphy‘s administration said Tuesday it agrees with state lawmakers that New Jersey should borrow up to $4.5 billion to help plug a revenue hole caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The amount of borrowing lawmakers proposed in their $32.7 billion spending plan is more than the $4 billion Murphy originally sought.  GET YOUR MAGNIFYING GLASS OUT BECAUSE IT’S MYSTERY SOLVING TIME — “No one taking responsibility for mandatory minimums amendment,” by NJ Advance Media’s Nikita Biryukov: “No one is taking responsibility for a quietly made amendment adding official misconduct to a list of offenses that will have their mandatory minimum sentencing guidelines excised under a bill working its way through the legislature. The bill, originally penned to remove minimum sentencing guidelines for non-violent property and drug crimes, was quietly amended last month to include official misconduct. State Sen. Sandra Cunningham (D-Jersey City), the bill’s prime Senate sponsor on Tuesday told the New Jersey Globe she did not know who added the provision, and she said she was still undecided on whether or not she would support the quietly added measure.”  MAKING AMENDS — Assembly [amends] bill allowing for early release of prisoners, by POLITICO’s Matt Friedman: Nearly a month after it stalled, a bill that would allow for the early release many prisoners because of the coronavirus pandemic is expected to be taken up again on Thursday. The Assembly plans to amend the bill, NJ S2519 (20R), to make inmates convicted of murder or aggravated sexual assault ineligible for early release, according to its top sponsor in the lower house. A previous version of the bill, which passed the state Senate in late August but stalled in the lower house, only exempted “repetitive, compulsive” sex offenders. “It is on the board list for the Assembly on Thursday and I am optimistic that there’s sufficient support to pass it, given the fact that we still have the highest prison death rate from Covid-19 in the country,” Assemblymember Raj Mukherji (D-Hudson), the bill’s sponsor, said in a phone interview. “And all of these inmates would have been released within the next 12 months anyway.”  4.1 MASTROS — “NJ contracted $37M for contact tracing. Was there a better way to use taxpayer dollars?” by The Record’s Ashley Balcerzak: “It’s become a dangerous cycle. Public health funding is slashed. An emergency strikes. Governments pour money into the problem and then cut funding once again after the crisis subsides. Local health officials in New Jersey fear that this will happen again. The Garden State agreed to pay close to $37 million in contracts to hire and train contact tracers for six months ... These millions are meant to provide quickly deployed backup to the 99 local and county health departments doing this work since March with limited staff and resources — departments that were forced to pull in volunteers and other public employees to help. But these are still temporary measures to respond to a short-term problem, officials say. It’s unclear what will happen when the contracts end and whether local departments will be given sustained funding to cover the basic infrastructure they require.”  NORTH JERSEY SENIORS STAND ASKED TO STAND ON LINE, WHILE SOUTH JERSEY SENIORS ARE TOLD TO STAND IN LINE — “MVC starts special senior hours but lawmaker says they’ve bungled that, too,” by NJ 101.5’s Dan Alexander: “The Motor Vehicle Commission on Tuesday implemented special hours for senior citizens and people with medical conditions. But one of the lawmakers who sponsored the law making this possible says the MVC is not doing it right … The MVC implemented the new law on Tuesday by allowing the designated customers to take care of transactions related to new and used car purchases at the MVC vehicle centers. The MVC says customers do not need to arrive before 2 p.m. to get a ticket for service. State Sen. Anthony M. Bucco, R-Morris, says the way the MVC is implementing his law will not work. ‘Essentially, what they've done is now establish another line for those who shouldn't be standing in line, between 2 and 4.’”  RATIOED — Staffing ratio bill amended to save costs for long-term care industry, by POLITICO’s Sam Sutton: New Jersey lawmakers amended legislation requiring nursing homes and long-term care facilities to keep a minimum number of certified nursing assistants on staff, potentially clearing the way for votes in both houses of the state Legislature later this week. Last week, several Assembly Democrats blanched at language that would have compelled nursing homes to staff one CNA for every six residents during the day shift, noting that provisions for other shifts set a broader parameters for which health workers count against the ratio. Amendments to the bill, NJ S2712 (20R), which cleared both the Assembly Budget Committee and the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee on Tuesday, decreases the day shift ratio to one CNA for every eight residents.  DEFENSE: BY ‘TO GO’ HE WAS REFERRING TO THE INDOOR DINING BAN — “In whistleblower lawsuit, fired AC casino exec claims she dealt with misogyny, retaliation,’ by The Record’s Dustin Racioppi: “A former executive of Ocean Casino Resort in Atlantic City claims she was fired in retaliation for raising concerns the company filed a falsified document with New Jersey’s gaming division and that the state agency’s director suggested to the company she needed ‘to go,’ according to a whistleblower lawsuit filed Tuesday. Loretta Pickus, the former senior vice president and general counsel at Ocean Casino, also said in her complaint that she was discriminated against because she is a woman.”  COME FOR THE HIGHER TAXES, STAY FOR THE SUPERIOR PIZZA AND INDIAN FOOD — “Some New York lawmakers push to follow New Jersey in raising millionaires’ taxes,” by The Wall Street Journal’s Jimmy Vieklind: “Progressive lawmakers and groups said New Jersey’s agreement to increase taxes on millionaires should be matched in New York, and are pushing the state Legislature here to convene soon to consider a revenue package. A coalition of advocacy group … is planning a Friday protest along Park Avenue to call for taxing the income and wealth of billionaires … The novel coronavirus pandemic prompted a $14.5 billion decline in state revenues, but Gov. Andrew Cuomo has pushed off negotiations on adjusting the state budget in the hope that Congress will appropriate additional aid. The Democratic governor said last week that might mean a delay until after the November election. But some lawmakers say New Jersey’s action undercuts that argument, and they will increase pressure for action. ‘I’ve never been jealous of Jersey before,’ said Assemblywoman Yuh-Line Niou, a Democrat from Manhattan.”  YAP — "Pandemic endangers program that provides support for NJ’s most vulnerable kids," by WNYC's Matt Katz: "The coronavirus is decimating government budgets, leaving politicians to snip away part of the safety net intended to catch the most vulnerable—like 12-year-old Jahsaun, identified by the state of New Jersey as at risk of falling into foster care or juvenile detention. Just about every week, Jahsaun hangs out with Sam Barber from Youth Advocate Programs (YAP), a national nonprofit that contracts with the state to pair advocates with 1,500 kids in all 21 counties. Barber’s role is part mentor, part friend, part guy-who-gets-Jahsaun-out-of-the-apartment ... Governor Phil Murphy planned to cut the YAP program by 55 percent due to coronavirus-related revenue shortfalls that is already leading the state to borrow at least $4 billion to balance the budget. On Tuesday, though, officials with the state senate said lawmakers will vote to restore $3 million to the Department of Child and Families, which funds YAP, but it’s still unclear if that will pay for YAP’s $7.8 million line item in its entirety."  —“NJ hunters make case for bear hunt on state land as state bear population rises”  —“Seeing tweets on billboards? NJ and Twitter team up on mask campaign to combat COVID”  —“NJ lawmaker: Ban price gouging for weddings delayed by COVID-19”  —“The O’Toole Chronicles: Be the ball”  —Mulshine: “Democrats’ big rebate giveaway freezes out seniors and other key voters”      TRUMP ERA    FACT CHECKERS NOT KEAN ON— "Attack ad falsely claims lawmaker helped sexual predators ‘hide in the shadows’," by The Washington Post's Glenn Kessler: "The bulk of the evidence shows Malinowski played no role in this debate. But he did work for an organization that objected to a type of national sex offender registry created in legislation. That fact might have kept this ad at Three Pinocchios. But the NRCC’s over-the-top language — such as 'Tom Malinowski chose sex offenders over your family' — tipped our rating to Four. Such inflammatory claims should not be made on such flimsy evidence."  —"In apparent play for QAnon supporters, GOP attack ads claim Democrat lawmakers are defending 'sex offenders'"  SINGHONARA — “Judges ends Singh Senate bid,” by New Jersey Globe’s David Wildstein: “Superior Court Judge Stuart Minkowitz [on Tuesday] dismissed Singh’s challenge of the July 7 primary election. Former U.S. Food and Drug Administration official Rik Mehta defeated Hirsh Singh by 8,727 votes. Singh filed for recounts shortly after the primary election results were certified in late July. Due to the complexities of New Jersey election law, individual challenges had to be filed in each county. Certification was delayed by a week in some parts of the state. Last week, the courts consolidated all the cases and assigned them to Minkowitz.”  —“Menendez lambastes GOP on rush to pick new Supreme Court Justice”  —“NJ’s top elections official: ‘Vote, sign, seal, and return the ballot’”  A message from Masterworks:      LOCAL    SPEZIALE NON-DELIVERY — “Paterson police released false information about officer discipline, says lawsuit,” by The Paterson Times’ Jayed Rahman: “Six employees of the Paterson Police Department were disciplined in 2015 for committing serious violations. When retired police officer and civil rights advocate Richard Rivera sought information about the disciplinary actions through a public records request, police allegedly provided him false information. Rivera was provided a document that stated zero police officers were subject of major discipline in 2015. But that isn’t true, says Rivera’s lawsuit filed on September 11. Police previously released information to a news reporter that stated six police officers were disciplined in 2015 … Public safety director Jerry Speziale declined to comment citing litigation. When asked why the police website does not contain the information, Speziale said there have been frequent changes in people managing the website.”  SHORE VOTERS URGED NOT TO PUT BALLOT IN A BOTTLE AND THROW IT IN THE OCEAN — “Here's an inside look at how mail-in voting will work at the Shore. Will your vote count?” by The Asbury Park Press’ Erik Larsen and Alex N. Gecan: “The plan, Ocean County Clerk Scott M. Colabella explained during a tour on Sept. 14, was to keep this human assembly line moving 12 hours a day, seven days a week, until the last of some 450,000 ballots are mailed out to the county’s registered voters, a process expected to take weeks. To build some momentum, it was decided to prepare ballots for the county’s smallest municipalities first, giving workers a sense of accomplishment from seeing towns crossed off the to-do list, one by one … Voters in smaller Ocean County towns began receiving their ballots in the mail last week. Officials are urging voters to fill out their ballots and return them as soon as possible to avoid a last-minute crush. Predicting how many will do that is next to impossible. ‘Our greatest fear,’ Kean said, ‘is that we’re going to have 350,000 ballots sent out by mail and 350,000 decide to drop them in the mail on Nov. 1, and we get killed because we get all the ballots at the same time.’”  —Fulop: “Health not headlines: How cities are shifting the immigration narrative”  —“Hunterdon freeholders say JCP&L rate hike should be rejected”      EVERYTHING ELSE    R.I.P. — “'It's a difficult week': Tyler Clementi's mom shares her journey 10 years after son's death,” by The Record’s Hannan Adely: “Jane Clementi packed the belongings from her home in Ridgewood, where she and her husband had lived for 31 years and raised three boys, into dozens of boxes for her move in February. Into one of those boxes, she placed the writings that her youngest son, Tyler, had scrawled on loose paper and in the back of spiral and marble notebooks … A few weeks ago, she sat down and finally opened the pages. What she read, nearly 10 years after Tyler killed himself so publicly — sparking a national conversation about suicide, mental health and LGBTQ youth — broke her heart all over again: ‘There is nothing in this world that I love or at least nothing I allow myself to love. I just want to go home. I just want to be deleted.’ On Sept. 22, 2010, just days after starting classes at Rutgers University, Tyler jumped from the George Washington Bridge after his roommate used a webcam to spy on him during a romantic encounter with another man and then invited others on social media to watch.”  R.I.P. — “Tommy DeVito, original Four Seasons member, dies of COVID-19 at 92,” by NJ Advance Media’s Jeremy Schneider: “Tommy DeVito, one of the founding members of iconic doo-wop group The Four Seasons has died from COVID-19. He was 92. Actor Alfred Nittoli, a friend of DeVito’s, posted the news on Facebook. DeVito, a Belleville native, had recently been hospitalized after contracting coronavirus.”  —“Murphy makes cameo at Liberty Science Center’s virtual ‘I Stand for Science’ gala”  —“N.J. drag strip cited for COVID-19 violations after cops find at least 1,000 spectators at races, state says”  —“Want a piece of the $1.6B wind farm eyed for the Jersey Shore? There's a trust for that”  —“N.J. and NYC’s new bagel war is everything (with cream cheese)”  A message from Masterworks: History shows adding blue-chip art can boost portfolio stability. Data from Citi’s Global Art Market Report 2019 finds art to be one of the least volatile asset classes, sharing a correlation factor of just 0.13 to public equities. Beyond that, contemporary art has outperformed the S&P by over 180% from 2000–2018, according to industry benchmarks. Although investing in art has been around for centuries (Sotheby’s was once the oldest company listed on the NYSE) only the ultra-wealthy have been able to participate. Modern investing platforms like Masterworks are finally democratizing the $1.7 trillion art market by giving anyone access at a starting point everyone can afford. Skip the 25,000+ waitlist by signing up today.  Follow us on Twitter Matt Friedman @mattfriedmannj Even more borrowing in the budge