BATTLE brewing over state DEMOCRATIC PARTY — Baker: There’s hope for HALLOWEEN — ‘UNLAWFUL’ stop in West Roxbury Presented by Public Transit Public Good Coalition  GOOD MORNING, MASSACHUSETTS.  SCOOP: DEM PARTY CHAIR FACES A CHALLENGE — There's a battle brewing for control of the Massachusetts Democratic Party.  State Democratic Party chairman Gus Bickford is likely to face two challengers in his bid for another four-year term next month. Former gubernatorial candidate Bob Massie is running for the seat, he confirmed to POLITICO. And former candidate for lieutenant governor Mike Lake has been making behind-the-scenes phone calls in preparation for his own run, according to three sources.  The party's next leader will be at the helm when the governor's race comes in 2022, an office Democrats are desperate to win. But the party's 2018 nominee, Jay Gonzalez, only received 33 percent of the vote against popular GOP Gov. Charlie Baker. While the party hasn't been able to put a dent in Baker's popularity, Democrats have been able to pick up seats in the state legislature over the last several years.  "A lot of things have changed over the last four years. It's not the same world, it's not the same America, it's not the same Massachusetts. And I just don't think the party is doing enough to bring new people in and new energy, young people and so forth, but also to meet those challenges," Massie told me in a phone call last night. "As long as the party is still unclear about structures or still battling internal issues, it's going to be harder to beat [Baker]."  Massie said he'd spoken to Lake, and during that conversation both men indicated they plan to run for the seat. Lake did not respond to requests for comment yesterday afternoon.  For his part, Bickford said he is "laser focused" on electing Democratic nominee Joe Biden on Nov. 3, and pointed to the party's record flipping seats on Beacon Hill. "I do plan to run for re-election and I welcome any candidate to the race for chair of this great party," Bickford said in an email.  One issue likely to come up when the party votes next month is its handling of allegations against Holyoke Mayor Alex Morse by a group of college Democrats, which were later found to be part of an apparent political smear. Bickford retained former state Sen. Cheryl Jacques to investigate what happened, though some party members remain dissatisfied. Lake is among the Massachusetts Democrats who have been vocal about the party's role in the situation and choice of investigator, according to internal emails shared with POLITICO.  The state party will vote for its next chair less than two weeks after the Nov. 3 election. The contest is a runoff, meaning if no candidate wins by over 50% of the vote, the race will go to a second ballot. Bickford won the seat in a 2014 runoff against Suffolk County Sheriff Steve Tompkins and former candidate for lieutenant governor Steve Kerrigan. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, the election will be conducted virtually.  PROGRAMMING NOTE: Massachusetts Playbook will not publish Monday, Oct. 12. I'll be back in your inbox on Tuesday, Oct. 13. In the meantime, send tips, scoops and birthdays to [email protected] .  Have a tip, story, suggestion, birthday, anniversary, new job, or any other nugget for the Playbook? Get in touch: [email protected]  TODAY — Vice President Mike Pence and Democratic candidate Kamala Harris debate. Sen. Ed Markey hosts a livestream with Democratic candidates Jamaal Bowman, Cori Bush and Mondaire Jones about the future of the progressive movement. Rep. Joe Kennedy III joins a fundraiser for the Biden campaign ahead of the vice presidential debate. Boston Mayor Marty Walsh speaks to reporters at City Hall. State lawmakers hold a economic roundtable.  THE LATEST NUMBERS  – “Massachusetts reports 454 new COVID cases, 8 deaths as state mandates flu shots for nursing home workers,” by Tanner Stening, MassLive.com: “State health officials confirmed another 454 coronavirus cases on Tuesday, bringing the statewide tally to at least 133,359. That’s based on 12,785 new molecular tests reported by the Department of Public Health .”  DATELINE BEACON HILL  – “Baker: State's Health Care System Prepared For Any Surge In COVID Cases,” by Mike Deehan, GBH News: “Gov. Charlie Baker said Tuesday the state is prepared not only for the upcoming Halloween holiday, but for a second surge of COVID-19 cases. The state's health care system, he said, has the capacity to care for a wave of new patients if they come this fall. ‘We expected and anticipated that there would be an increase in the fall. And that's why we built such a significant infrastructure around testing and tracing,’ Baker said during a press conference .”  – “As Mass. COVID-19 metrics rise, state officials avoid defining how bad is too bad,” by Dasia Moore, Boston Globe: “The numbers are clear: COVID-19 hospitalizations, daily case counts, and the percentage of people testing positive are all higher in Massachusetts now than they were a month ago. Less clear is what will happen next. Even with statistics that track the pandemic’s spread on the rise, the state continues to move forward with reopening plans. And public health officials have not clearly explained what would signal the beginning of an unmanageable new wave of COVID-19 .”  – “Baker not calling a halt to Halloween,” by Sarah Betancourt, CommonWealth Magazine: “Gov. Charlie Baker said on Tuesday that he won’t try to stop Halloween from happening, saying it is much safer for people to engage in outdoor trick-or-treating than it is to hold parties indoors. ‘A whole bunch of people say to me, ‘Why don’t you just cancel Halloween?’ And the reason we’re not canceling Halloween is because that would have turned into thousands of indoor Halloween parties, which would have been a heck of a lot worse for public safety, and for the spread of the virus, than outdoor, organized, and supervised trick-or-treating,’ said Baker at a press event in Salem with the city’s mayor, Kim Driscoll .”  – “Massachusetts flu vaccine required for nursing home staff, Charlie Baker administration implements coronavirus reforms,” by Rick Sobey, Boston Herald: “Gov. Charlie Baker’s administration will require nursing home staff members to get the flu vaccine by the end of the year, an order that comes as the coronavirus pandemic has devastated long-term care facilities across Massachusetts. The flu shot mandate also comes in the wake of the state Department of Public Health requiring Bay State students to get the flu vaccine by the end of 2020. ”  – “For Years, The Steamship Authority Has Hired No Black-Owned Businesses. Locals Are Pushing For Change,” by Phillip Martin, GBH News: “On any given summer day in Massachusetts, thousands of Black travelers join the hoards of passengers riding Steamship Authority ferries between the mainland and Martha's Vineyard and other islands. But the Steamship Authority does no business with Black-owned companies .”  – “Military doctor hopes his commander-in-chief has found a new trait: empathy,” by Adrian Walker, Boston Globe: “Like a lot of us, Dr. Jon Santiago has watched President Trump’s recent activities with a combination of curiosity and alarm. Santiago has an unusual vantage point — he is an emergency room physician who has treated hundreds of COVID patients; an elected official (a state representative from the South End); and an officer in the Army Reserve. In fact, he spoke to me Tuesday from Kuwait, where he is spending a few months on active duty in a military hospital .”  – “Mass. poll workers to mask up with donated face coverings,” by Michael P. Norton State House News Service: “To ensure the safety of those working at polling places on Election Day, a Leominster furniture manufacturer plans to donate enough high quality face masks to protect every poll worker who needs one in Massachusetts on Tuesday, Nov. 3. AIS plans to announce Tuesday that it is working with state and local officials to make sure the masks are delivered ahead of Election Day .”  FROM THE HUB  – “Boston Police Working Overtime Still Do Not Wear Body Cameras, Despite City’s Pledge A Year Ago,” by Ally Jarmanning, WBUR: “Nearly a year ago, the mayor promised Boston police officers would soon be required to wear body cameras during overtime shifts. Today, the rule change remains stalled, leaving tens of thousands of hours worked by Boston police undocumented .”  – “City Councilors Want Answers After Apparent 'Unlawful' Stop In West Roxbury,” by Shannon Dooling, WBUR: “Two Boston City Councilors say they want answers from federal agencies after a Roslindale resident said he was stopped and detained by what he described as federal immigration officers Tuesday. Bena Apreala, who is Black, said he was jogging on VFW Parkway in West Roxbury Tuesday afternoon when two SUVs with tinted windows approached, one blocking the sidewalk in front of him and the other pulling up next to him along the street .”  – “In the wake of overtime controversy, councilor wants to discuss Boston police protocols,” by Danny McDonald, Boston Globe: “Weeks after federal authorities charged nine current and former Boston police officers with running an overtime scam, a city councilor wants to scrutinize the department’s overtime protocols. ‘We shouldn’t just trust our departments necessarily to be the entire check and balance,’ said Councilor Ricardo Arroyo, a former public defender, in a Tuesday phone interview .”  – “With No Stimulus Check Until After Election, Experts Say Massachusetts' Economy Will 'Get Worse Before It Gets Better,'” by Tori Bedford, GBH News: “Playing the waiting game with the state’s reopening plan just became even more challenging for thousands of Massachusetts residents, experts say, now that President Donald Trump has announced that another federal stimulus check will not be coming until after the election .”  – “Colleges facing ‘astronomical’ COVID costs,” by Shira Schoenberg, CommonWealth Magazine: “Massachusetts colleges and universities are so far doing relatively well in opening their doors while keeping COVID-19 cases contained – but top education officials warn that their ability to successfully reopen comes at an astronomical price tag. And without an influx of state or federal funding, the ability of some schools to survive may be in peril .”  – “'TestBoston' To Offer Free At-Home Coronavirus Tests Monthly For 10,000 Across Greater Boston,” by Carey Goldberg, WBUR: “Imagine: You wake up in the morning, brush your teeth, get dressed, and then remember that you're due for one more bit of maintenance — a quick nostril-swabbing and finger prick. It's time for your free monthly at-home coronavirus tests — the swab to check for the virus itself, and the finger-prick for a droplet of blood to test for the antibodies that would indicate you've had the virus recently .”  – “Relaxing State Social Distancing Measures Immediately Increases Virus Spread, MGH Study Finds,” by Lisa Mullins and Lynn Jolicoeur, WBUR: “A new study from Massachusetts General Hospital provides more evidence that the coronavirus spreads more when communities relax social distancing measures and reopen economies. The researchers had previously found that the coronavirus transmission rate went down when states across the country implemented social distancing restrictions, including shutting down schools, offices and restaurants .”  – “Christopher Columbus Statue To Be Replaced By Italian Immigrant Statue In North End’s Waterfront Park; Knights Of Columbus Will Display Old Statue,” by Alyssa Nations, North End Waterfront: “Mayor Marty Walsh announced on Monday evening to the North End/ Waterfront Neighborhood Council (NEWNC) that the fragile condition of the Columbus statue after its recent beheading by vandals means that it will not be returning to its pedestal in Christopher Columbus Park.”  – “District Attorney: 'Cloud Of Doubt Remains' Over Mass. Drug Lab Scandal,” by Deborah Becker, WBUR: “A new controversy in Massachusetts' drug lab scandals cropped up this week, with a district attorney sending a sharply worded letter questioning the state's investigation into the actions of a disgraced chemist. Middlesex District Attorney Marian Ryan wrote that, despite a $6 million investigation into the scandal, ‘ a cloud of doubt remains’ about former chemist Sonya Farak and her work at the former Hinton Lab in Boston .”  – “With COVID-19 uptick in Massachusetts, Brigham and Women’s Hospital launches 10,000-person research study to predict early warning signs of a surge,” by Jackson Cote, MassLive.com: “As coronavirus cases continue to fluctuate in Massachusetts, Brigham and Women’s Hospital announced it is launching a massive research study in the Boston area that aims to increase access to testing and surveillance, potentially predicting the early warning signs of a second COVID-19 surge .”  PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES  – “Study Finds Regional Pact To Reduce Transportation Pollution Could Yield Major Health Benefits,” by Barbara Moran, WBUR: “A preliminary analysis of the health impacts of the regional Transportation & Climate Initiative (TCI) found that the plan that would reduce greenhouse gases the most would also yield the biggest health benefits, helping to avoid about 1,100 deaths and nearly 5,000 asthma cases, and saving $11.1 billion in heath costs in the decade after the initiative kicks in .”  DAY IN COURT  – “Federal prosecutors formally seek SCOTUS review of ruling tossing death penalty in Tsarnaev case,” by Travis Andersen, Boston Globe: “Federal prosecutors on Tuesday formally filed their request for the US Supreme Court to review an appeals court ruling in July that threw out the death penalty in the case against Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. The 424-page request, known as a writ of certiorari, raises two questions for the high court to consider .”  NOVEMBER IS COMING  – “Another political fault line in the era of coronavirus: Plexiglass,” by Stephanie Murray, POLITICO: “Plexiglass is the new mask when it comes to pandemic-inspired precautions dividing Republicans and Democrats. The campaigns of President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden are faced with an unprecedented problem. After a coronavirus outbreak at the White House, the president is ill with Covid-19 and many of his closest allies have been exposed or even tested positive.”  TRUMPACHUSETTS  – “Political Notes: Candidate Steven Xiarhos ‘doing great’ under quarantine,” Cape Cod Times: “Steven Xiarhos, a Republican candidate for state representative in the 5th Barnstable District, is feeling good and quarantining at his home in West Barnstable after he recently came in contact with multiple people at the White House — including President Donald Trump — who have tested positive for COVID-19 .”  – “Charlie Baker glad Trump is recovering but chides him, too,” by Matt Stout and Travis Andersen, Boston Globe: “Governor Charlie Baker on Tuesday said he was glad President Trump and Melania Trump appeared to be on the mend following their COVID-19 diagnoses, but the Republican governor rapped the commander-in-chief for ignoring the advice of health professionals. ‘I’m glad the president and first lady seem to be recovering from their episode of COVID,’ Baker said during a press briefing in Salem .”  FROM THE DELEGATION  – “Rep. Neal calls Trump halt to relief talks ‘dangerous,’” by Larry Parnass, The Berkshire Eagle: “By calling off negotiations on a pandemic relief package, President Trump hurts Americans who are trying to survive, the Berkshires’ voice in Congress said Tuesday. U.S. Rep. Richard E. Neal, D-Springfield, said the president is leaving Americans in the lurch ‘in their hour of greatest need .’”  – “Elizabeth Warren, Katherine Clark urge DEA in letter to finalize ‘partial fill’ regulation to combat opioid epidemic,” by Dialynn Dwyer, Boston.com: “Sen. Elizabeth Warren and Rep. Katherine Clark are calling out the Drug Enforcement Administration for failing to finalize a regulation they say is ‘crucial’ in combating the opioid epidemic. In a letter released Tuesday, signed by the Massachusetts Democrats along with Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, Sen. Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, and Rep. Steve Stivers of Ohio, the lawmakers urged the DEA to implement the ‘partial fill’ regulation .”  ABOVE THE FOLD  — Herald: “COVID COLLAPSE,” — Globe: “Craziest year ever? A few have gone down in history," "Stimulus in doubt as Trump kills talks.”  FROM THE 413  – “Holyoke Soldiers’ Home opens doors to visitors,” by Dusty Christensen, Daily Hampshire Gazette: “When Cheryl Turgeon visits her 90-year-old father, Dennis Thresher, on Wednesday at the Soldiers’ Home, it will be the first time she has stepped inside since it was closed to visitors in March. Turgeon’s indoor visit at the Soldiers’ Home will not be unique. The state-run facility, where at least 76 veteran residents died of COVID-19 this year, began indoor visits for family members and loved ones Tuesday .”  – “Rural Berkshire districts need bump in education aid, lawmakers say,” by Danny Jin, The Berkshire Eagle: “Some Berkshire school districts, particularly those that serve rural communities, will require additional funding in a school year hampered by the coronavirus pandemic, lawmakers say. Massachusetts legislators have committed to funding Chapter 70, the main source of education funding in the state budget, at last year’s level with an added $107 million for inflation .”  THE LOCAL ANGLE  – “Medford releases ‘roadmap’ for fighting racism,” by John Laidler, Boston Globe: “Four months after Mayor Breanna Lungo-Koehn declared racism a public health crisis in Medford, officials are providing residents an update on what is being done to address the problem. The city recently released an online report detailing the work departments are undertaking to promote equity and inclusion in city services and to combat racism in the community .”  – “North Andover Selectmen ask to be removed from 'red' COVID-19 designation,” by Genevieve DiNatale, Eagle-Tribune: “The North Andover Board of Selectmen voted unanimously to send a letter to Gov. Charlie Baker requesting that he reconsider using the ‘red zone’ classification for the town, which was recently hit by a COVID-19 outbreak at Merrimack College.”  – “Lawrence Announces New Mobile COVID Testing Initiative,” by Jenifer B. McKim, GBH News: “Citing his city’s troubling rate of infection, Lawrence Mayor Daniel Rivera on Tuesday announced a new mobile testing initiative to better detect and prevent the spread of COVID-19. To slow the spread, Rivera said, the city purchased a 40-foot-long, bright blue-and-yellow Mobile Health Unit that will be rambling through Lawrence city streets and offering free coronavirus tests for anybody who wants one .”  – “Worcester Board of Health votes no confidence in chairperson Edith Claros,” by Nick Kotsopoulos, Telegram & Gazette: “Four of the five members of the Board of Health voted ‘no confidence’ in their chairperson Monday night, contending that Edith Claros has been openly hostile and disrespectful to them in that role. The no-confidence vote stems from a meeting last month when board members said that Claros cut off previous board discussions about police brutality and institutional racism in the Police Department, while allowing police officials to speak without interruption .”  MEDIA MATTERS  – “The Globe endorses Joe Biden for president,” Boston Globe: “In this historic election, in addition to a traditional editorial that argues that the former vice president can restore the integrity of the presidency and set the country on a better path, the Globe editorial board make 12 cases for 12 different kinds of voters .”  MAZEL! Rep. Seth Moulton’s office won a 2020 Democracy Award from the Congressional Management Foundation for running the best constituent service operation in Congress.  WEEKEND WEDDING – Kara Swisher, host of NYT’s “Sway” podcast, contributing writer to the NYT opinion section and co-host of “Pivot” for New York Media, and Amanda Katz, former senior editor for investigations at CNN and a Boston Globe alum, got married Saturday. They wed at the Peristyle in Prospect Park in Brooklyn, with only immediate family and a few close friends, including Lydia Polgreen, whose wife Candy Feit introduced them. The couple plan to do a big ceremony in 2021. Pics  HAPPY BIRTHDAY – to GBH’s Peter Kadzis.  Want to make an impact? POLITICO Massachusetts has a variety of solutions available for partners looking to reach and activate the most influential people in the Bay State. Have a petition you want signed? A cause you’re promoting? Seeking to increase brand awareness among this key audience? Share your message with our influential readers to foster engagement and drive action. Contact Jesse Shapiro to find out how: [email protected].  Follow us on Twitter Stephanie Murray @StephMurr_Jour BATTLE brewing over state DEMOCRATIC PARTY — Baker: There’s hope for HALLOWEEN — ‘UNLAWFUL’ stop in West Roxbury