POLITICO Playbook PM: Here’s how the Amy Coney Barrett hearing is going so far Presented by Facebook  Judge Amy Coney Barrett told Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.): "Judges can’t just wake up one day and say, ‘I have an agenda. I like guns. I hate guns. I like abortion. I hate abortion,’ and walk in like a royal queen and impose their will on the world.” | Susan Walsh/Pool via AP Photo  JUDGE AMY CONEY BARRETT testified this morning on Capitol Hill -- using no notes, just keeping a pad of Senate stationery in front of her. Here are some key moments:  -- ACB to Sen. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-S.C.): “Judges can’t just wake up one day and say, ‘I have an agenda. I like guns. I hate guns. I like abortion. I hate abortion,’ and walk in like a royal queen and impose their will on the world.”  -- “WE DO OWN A GUN,” BARRETT said, and added she thought she could decide cases involving guns fairly.  -- SEVERAL DEMOCRATS have suggested that ACB should recuse herself on cases involving challenges to the Affordable Care Act, or the election. SHE SAID she would follow guidelines and precedent, even though it’s up to each individual justice whether to recuse themselves. AP leads with: “Barrett won’t commit to recusing from election disputes”  -- ACB declined to get into whether she thought Roe v. Wade was wrongly decided. “It signals to litigants I might tilt one way or another in a pending case.”  -- SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-Ill.) got BARRETT to talk about race. She said seeing the George Floyd video was “very, very personal for my family” -- which includes two black children. She said it is “uncontroversial and obvious” that there is racism in this country. She also told DURBIN she is “not hostile to the ACA.”  NEXT UP: Sen. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-R.I.) when the committee returns at 12:45 p.m. The POLITICO ledeall  MEADOWS IN THE ROOM! … WAPO’s PAUL KANE (@pkcapitol): “So Meadows arrived inside hearing room shortly after 10 a.m., per reporters in room. FWIW, it’s bizarre that WH chief attends these hearings. This is 7th SCOTUS since 2005 and, to be sure, Andy Card, Rahm, Reince & Kelly did not attend hearings. Maybe ever so briefly. … It’s 3 weeks to an election that his boss is currently behind, an international pandemic that caused mass unemployment. Social unrest. This SCOTUS nom is just about easiest thing on WH’s plate. A lot more important things for Meadows to be managing right now.”  SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH MCCONNELL announced this morning that the Senate would vote “on targeted relief for American workers, including new funding for the PPP.” DEMOCRATS have suggested a stand-alone extension of the PPP is a non-starter for them.  -- SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI also reiterated on a Dem caucus call that she would not give in and accept the GOP offer: “We can’t get an agreement just by folding.” … ON THE PROPOSAL FROM STEVEN MNUCHIN: “Are you giving haircuts or chopping off heads?”  SENATE REPUBLICANS KINDA WANNA GO HOME … @realDonaldTrump: “STIMULUS! Go big or go home!!!”  NEW … WAPO: “FBI: Whitmer plotters also discussed kidnapping Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam,” by Devlin Barrett  Good Tuesday afternoon.  A message from Facebook: Facebook supports updated internet regulations We support updated internet regulations to set clear rules for today’s toughest challenges and hold companies, including Facebook, accountable for:  — Combating foreign election interference  — Protecting people's privacy  — Enabling safe and easy data portability between platforms  Read more  WHAT THE OTHER EIGHT ARE UP TO -- “Supreme Court rejects challenge to Planned Parenthood funding,” by Alice Miranda Ollstein: “The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected South Carolina’s request to reinstate its blockade on Medicaid funding to Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers, a move that could indicate the court’s conservative majority may be selective about abortion cases as a new member is expected to soon join its ranks. …  “Both sides of the abortion debate have been closely watching how aggressive the court’s conservatives will move to roll back abortion access with Barrett seemingly on track for confirmation later this month. The case stems from South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster’s 2018 executive order barring enrollees of Medicaid, the low-income health insurance program, from receiving routine, non-abortion care from health care providers who also perform abortions.” POLITICO … The details  -- THE EMOLUMENTS QUESTION … AP: “Supreme Court won’t revive Trump case brought by Democrats”  FIRST IN PLAYBOOK -- American Bridge 21st Century is launching a $7.8 million ad blitz over the next two weeks, concentrated largely in Pennsylvania as well as Michigan and Wisconsin. The ads are aimed at damaging TRUMP’S standing among seniors, veterans and rural voters. They feature former Trump supporters and will take the form of TV ads, direct mail and billboards. There will also be ads targeting Latino and Black Pennsylvanians on social media focusing on voter education and the “naked ballot” issue. “Letter” ad … “Country”  Playbook PM Sign up for our must-read newsletter on what's driving the afternoon in Washington. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or updates from POLITICO and you agree to our privacy policy and terms of service. You can unsubscribe at any time and you can contact us here. This sign-up form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.  DAN DIAMOND: “Democrats urge watchdog to rush review of Trump drug cards”: Senior Democratic lawmakers on Tuesday called on government auditors to quickly review the Trump administration's hastily devised plan to award drug-discount cards to seniors, warning it could be an election-linked gambit and violate federal law.  “‘Given the unusual nature of these taxpayer-funded payments to Medicare beneficiaries, we are concerned that the demonstration fails to comply with relevant federal laws and regulations,’ wrote Reps. Frank Pallone and Richard Neal and Sen. Ron Wyden to the Government Accountability Office, citing a POLITICO report. They also called on GAO to provide an ‘expedited review’ of the plan the Trump administration is aiming to finalize before Election Day.” POLITICO  IMMIGRATION FILES -- “U.S. Agents Returned Migrants to Honduras in Unauthorized Operation, Senate Report Says,” by WSJ’s Michelle Hackman in Washington and José de Córdoba in Mexico: “U.S. border agents working in Guatemala detained Honduran migrants intending to make their way to the U.S. border and returned them to Honduras in an unauthorized operation last January, a review by Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee found.  “The agents were stationed in Guatemala, along with other countries across Latin America, to help train local police in counter narcotics and other efforts. They are strictly prohibited by the State Department, which provides their funding and oversees their efforts, from conducting direct enforcement operations in countries abroad.  “Still, last January, alarm bells went off in Washington when a group of Honduran migrants from the northern city of San Pedro Sula began crossing the Honduras-Guatemala border, with hopes of reaching the U.S. and asking for asylum. U.S. Customs and Border Protection rented three buses and set off to halt the caravan’s progress, according to the report. Together with Guatemalan border authorities, U.S. agents halted the migrants and loaded them onto buses, which then returned them to the border with Honduras, the review states.” WSJ  YIKES … WUSA9: “Virginia voter registration down on last day to register to vote before election,” by Khalida Volou and Jonathan Franklin: “An accidentally cut cable has caused the entire Virginia voter registration system to go down on the last day to register to vote before election day. The Virginia Information Technology Agency tweeted that a fiber cut near Route 10 in Chester, Virginia is to blame.  “‘Due to a network outage, the Citizen Portal is temporarily unavailable. We are working with our network providers to restore service as quickly as possible,’ the Virginia Department of Elections posted on their registration website. There was no estimate on if, or when, the problem would be fixed Tuesday.”  DATA DU JOUR -- “Mail Balloting Is Fueling Historic Early Voting in the 2020 Election,” by WSJ’s Danny Dougherty and Chad Day: “Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Virginia have already received more early ballots than they did in the 2016 presidential election. Several other states have topped 2016 numbers for mail ballots returned, even as in-person early voting is opening up in much of the country.  “So far, 8.2 million people have voted by mail in the general election and 835,000 headed to polling places early to cast ballots, according to figures from 35 states and the District of Columbia compiled by the Associated Press. For comparison, more than 58 million early ballots were cast in 2016. … In Florida, which has 29 Electoral College votes and where polling shows a tight race between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden, about 1.7 million mail ballots have been cast through Monday, more than 60% of those received in 2016.” WSJ  HOW WE VOTE -- JOSH GERSTEIN: “Appeals court reinstates Texas governor’s limit on ballot dropboxes”  CLICKER … NYT: “How Quickly Will Your Absentee Vote Be Counted? A State-by-State Timeline,” by Nick Corasaniti and Denise Lu  CASH SPLASH -- “Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan donate $100 million more to election administrators, despite conservative pushback,” by WaPo’s Michael Scherer: “Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, announced Tuesday an additional $100 million in donations to local governments to pay for polling place rentals, poll workers, personal protective equipment and other election administration costs over the coming weeks.  “The donation, which follows a previous gift of $300 million for state and local governments to help fund U.S. elections, comes in the face of a lawsuits from a conservative legal group seeking to block the use of private funds for the state and local administration of elections, an expense that has historically been paid for by governments. But Zuckerberg has been unmoved by legal threats, arguing in a Facebook post expected to go live Tuesday that his decision to fund election administration does not have a partisan political motive.” WaPo WARS -- “Bipartisan Christian group forms super PAC to oppose Trump,” by AP’s Elana Schor: “A group of prominent Christians from both sides of the aisle, including a past faith adviser to former President Barack Obama, is forming a political action committee designed to chip away at Christian support for President Donald Trump in the final weeks of the 2020 campaign.  “Dubbed Not Our Faith, the new super PAC plans to roll out six-figure TV and digital ads focused on Christian voters — particularly the evangelical and Catholic voters who helped power Trump to victory in 2016. Its first digital ad, set to run in Michigan and Pennsylvania, takes sharp aim at Trump’s claim to a foothold with Christians. The ad, shared with The Associated Press in advance of its release, says Trump ‘has used Christianity for his own purposes,’ invoking imagery of the Republican president’s photo op outside a historic Washington church amid this summer’s racial justice demonstrations.” AP  HOW THE WORLD IS WATCHING … AP/RAMALLAH, West Bank: “Palestinian premier: God help us if Trump wins re-election”: “The Palestinian prime minister has said it will be disastrous for his people and the world at large if President Donald Trump wins re-election next month. Speaking remotely to European lawmakers, Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh said the last four years of the Trump administration have greatly harmed the Palestinians.”  WIRED’S GARRETT GRAFF reveals TWO UNDISCLOSED CYBER OPS: “The Man Who Speaks Softly—and Commands a Big Cyber Army”: “[Paul] Nakasone is now the four-star general in charge of both Cyber Command and the NSA — one of the officials most directly in charge of preventing another surprise attack, whenever and wherever it may come, whether in the physical world or the virtual. He is only the third person to occupy what is perhaps the most powerful intelligence role ever created, a so-called ‘dual hat’ in government parlance. As director of the NSA, he commands one of the greatest surveillance — or ‘signals intelligence’ — machines in the world; as the leader of Cyber Command, he is in charge not only of defending the US against cyberattacks but also of executing cyberattacks against the nation's enemies. …  “According to WIRED’s reporting, Cyber Command has carried out at least two other sets of operations since the fall of 2019 without public knowledge. … All along, [Nakasone’s] been a Zelig-like figure, the ultimate gray man, whose views about surveillance, intelligence, and war-fighting have remained remarkably opaque.”  THE NEW NORMAL -- “July Is the New January: More Companies Delay Return to the Office,” by NYT’s Gillian Friedman and Kellen Browning  RIPPLE EFFECT -- “Coronavirus Pandemic Speeds Shift to Cleaner Energy,” by WSJ’s Russell Gold and David Hodari: “The world’s transition to cleaner sources of energy is gaining speed as the coronavirus pandemic accelerates a shift in investment away from fossil fuels, according to the International Energy Agency.  “Capital spending on energy this year is set to plunge by 18%, as global energy demand is expected to fall by 5% in 2020, a pullback not seen since World War II, the Paris-based agency said in its annual report on the future of the industry. But the projected investment cuts are highly uneven, highlighting a divergence in what companies, markets and investors are willing to finance. Spending on new oil and gas supplies took the largest hits, while renewable energy held up better than any other source, the IEA found.” WSJ  TRANSITION -- Anna Holland is now a press assistant for Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). She previously was a client strategy analyst at Targeted Victory.  ENGAGED -- Luke Graeter, legislative assistant for Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio), and Emily Saleme, legislative correspondent for Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), got engaged Saturday at their alma mater, Ohio State University. They met in college and made it official in front of the John Glenn School of Public Affairs. Pic … Another pic  BONUS BIRTHDAY: Buddy Gill (h/t John McKechnie)  Follow us on Twitter Anna Palmer @apalmerdc    Jake Sherman @JakeSherman    Eli Okun @eliokun    Garrett Ross @garrett_ross Playbook PM: Here’s how the Amy Coney Barrett hearing is going so far