Southern Tier sees Covid-19 spike — Mayoral contenders hold first forum — MTA faces 'suffocating' debt Presented by Uber  Reality check: Most of the concern about autumn’s increased coronavirus spread has been focused on denser communities downstate, where the virus erupted this spring and a new round of hotspots is now being targeted by health officials.  But in recent weeks the vast Southern Tier is emerging as a concern , particularly notable because it was largely spared from the worst of the outbreak seen this spring.  On Tuesday, the region, which spans much of New York's border with Pennsylvania, recorded an infection rate of just under 24 new cases per 100,000 people on a seven-day rolling average. For reference, that’s more than double the 10 per 100,000 cut off for states that New York officials consider dangerous enough to get on the tri-state travel quarantine list.  Aside from New York City and surrounding clusters, the Southern Tier is the only other region in the state to have a color-coded danger zone : Broome County was designated a yellow “precautionary zone” last week. The uptick is striking, because the Southern Tier was one of the first regions cleared to begin reopening businesses this spring. And with less trauma from the initial impact earlier this year, it’s more difficult to convince residents of the importance of enhanced precautions now necessary to control the spread.  Overall, New York’s tests still come back around a 1 percent positivity rate —- though that ticked up to 1.4 on Tuesday. And hospitalizations on Tuesday hit 923, the highest point since June 25, according to state data .  The governor has repeatedly said that the nation is only at “halftime” when it comes to battling Covid-19. Looks like New York could be heading out of the locker room soon.  IT’S WEDNESDAY. Got tips, suggestions or thoughts? Let us know ... By email: [email protected] and [email protected] , or on Twitter: @erinmdurkin and @annagronewold  WHERE’S ANDREW? No public schedule available by press time.  WHERE’S BILL? On Hot 97 at 8:30 a.m., then holding his semi-daily briefing at 10.  QUOTE OF THE DAY: “I’ll have some buddies to talk to in the morning, have a cup of coffee and read the paper — almost what you do in retirement. You actually make good friends.” — disgraced former Rep. Chris Collins on his way to a federal prison in Pensacola, Fla.  A message from Uber: CA voters & app workers voted overwhelmingly to protect workers’ flexibility and provide new benefits. Time for New York to follow, see how here.      WHAT CITY HALL'S READING  WITH NATIONAL FOCUS on the presidential election, the race to succeed Mayor Bill de Blasio kicked into high gear Tuesday night as seven candidates took questions on policing, real estate and economic recovery in the first public forum of the 2021 contest. The candidates, who span the ideological spectrum, found some common ground: They each vowed to replace de Blasio’s police chief, Dermot Shea, who caught flak for his handling of nightly police reform protests earlier this year, following the Minneapolis killing of George Floyd. They all promised to stay out of the City Council speaker’s race — a departure from de Blasio, who used his newfound influence in 2013 to position his favored legislator to win the powerful post, which is intended to serve as a check on mayors. And to varying degrees, they all questioned his expansive real estate agenda and unsuccessful plan for an Amazon headquarters in Queens, which would have created at least 25,000 jobs over a decade but triggered opposition in part for its reliance on large tax breaks and its end-run around a public review process. POLITICO’s Sally Goldenberg and Joe Anuta  “COVID-19 HAS put the MTA in such a dire financial hole that one in every four dollars the agency brings in next year will go to paying off its mountain of debt, says a report released Tuesday by state Comptroller Tom DiNapoli. Historically low use of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s trains, buses, bridges and tunnels has dug a $10.3 billion budget hole through the end of 2023 — and it’s not clear whether the agency will get relief from Congress to cover its losses. DiNapoli said the pandemic — which has so far killed at least 131 transit employees — is the greatest crisis in the MTA’s 55-year history. ‘The MTA desperately needs an influx of federal funds or unheard of service cuts and workforce reductions will happen,’ said DiNapoli. ‘Failure to fund the MTA now could disrupt maintenance and repairs and increase the MTA’s debt to suffocating levels that could take multiple generations to recover from.’” New York Daily News’ Clayton Guse  — While only 30 percent of riders have returned to the subway system as a whole since the onset of the pandemic in March, many subway stations in Brooklyn and Queens have recovered at least half of their usual ridership.  — “In May, as the city continued to fight to keep down its coronavirus infection rate, Mayor Bill de Blasio appointed transit experts to a Surface Transportation Advisory Council. ‘These councils will provide real world guidance to ensure our plans to reopen the city make sense and keep people safe,’ de Blasio said in a release. The transportation experts submitted a long list of ideas to the mayor this summer. Among the suggestions: aggressively expand street space for pedestrians and ramp up bike lane installation with the goal of doubling ridership; come up with a plan for restricting vehicular traffic in Manhattan like the city did after 9/11, ‘should traffic congestion surge’; and come up with a ‘robust communications plan’ to help New Yorkers get out of their cars and find other ways to get around. The de Blasio administration did not respond to the panel.” Gothamist’s Christopher Robbins  “HUNDREDS OF SCHOOL children appeared suddenly on the rainy streets of Borough Park on Tuesday morning. With backpacks in tow, they walked from stoops to yellow school buses, disembarking outside the propped open doors and back entrances of the neighborhood's yeshivas. They moved quickly, heeding the warnings they'd been given to arrive on time or be turned away. Facing an uptick in coronavirus test rates, Governor Andrew Cuomo mandated last week that roughly 300 public and private schools inside nine hotspot zones transition to all-remote learning. Newly-reopened public schools, some of which don't have any confirmed cases of the virus, reluctantly complied. But many private yeshivas are spurning the shutdown order in the ultra-Orthodox stronghold of Borough Park, home to one of the highest infection rates in the city, Gothamist has learned. According to one parent, nearly all of the private yeshivas in the neighborhood have ignored Cuomo's closing order.” Gothamist’s Jake Offenhartz and Scott Heins  NEW YORK CITY has begun to see a “leveling off” in coronavirus infection rates in some hotspot neighborhoods, following a weekend enforcement blitz that doled out $150,000 in fines to violators of new shutdown rules. Mayor Bill de Blasio said Tuesday there are early indications that a new round of restrictions, which took effect last week in parts of Brooklyn and Queens, are having an effect. “We are seeing some results. We’ve got, certainly, a lot of work ahead. We are seeing some leveling off beginning in the communities that have been most affected,” de Blasio told reporters. Shutdowns took effect on Thursday under a decree from Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who said nonessential businesses must close, houses of worship can only host 10 people, and all gatherings are banned in red zones where the worst clusters of Covid-19 have occurred. Lesser restrictions apply in orange and yellow zones surrounding the worst outbreaks. POLITICO’s Erin Durkin  — There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases across multiple neighborhoods on Staten Island, with five zip codes seeing a test positivity rate more than 2 percent.  — It’s unclear whether early voting sites will be able to operate in neighborhoods with Covid-19-inspired restrictions.  “THE NYPD’s highest-ranking Hispanic officer, Chief of Patrol Fausto Pichardo, resigned from his position after weeks of tension with Mayor de Blasio, police sources said Tuesday. Pichardo, 43, was named Chief of Patrol less than a year ago, after serving as No. 2 for Chief of Detectives Rodney Harrison when Harrison held that position. The NYPD confirmed that he put in his retirement papers, but sources tell the Daily News that City Hall officials are pleading with him to reconsider. The tipping point came after last week’s Orthodox Jewish protests in Borough Park, sources said. Pichardo worked 36 hours straight on Wednesday and Thursday, then went home to fall asleep and missed a call from the mayor, the sources said. When he woke up, he returned the call. But Hizzoner summoned him to City Hall Friday to give him a tongue lashing for not answering the phone, the sources said.” New York Daily News’ Thomas Tracy, Graham Rayman, Rocco Parascandola and John Annese  — The NYPD created a committee to “reimagine” its policing, in line with a mandate from Cuomo to police departments across the state.  — Elizabeth Glazer, director of the Mayor’s Office of Criminal Justice, is leaving her post by the end of the month.      WHAT ALBANY'S READING  “TRAVELERS from 38 states and territories will now have to isolate upon entering New York, New Jersey and Connecticut after the three neighboring states expanded their quarantine list again. Michigan, Virginia and Ohio were all added Tuesday to the tri-state travel advisory.” USA Today Network’s Jon Campbell  “GOV. ANDREW CUOMO’S new book was released Tuesday, and simultaneously serves as a definitive chronicle of decisions made by officials in New York to address the COVID-19 pandemic and a sharp rebuke to the federal government’s perceived failure to act. Cuomo’s noted, more than once, that the book is not a signal that the pandemic is over, but a retelling of the height of the crisis in New York, where the virus has killed more than 33,000. The book, titled ‘American Crisis,’ is Cuomo’s attempt to convince readers that New York formed a competent response to the pandemic, while characterizing President Donald Trump and his administration as careless and dismissive to the virus. ‘Trump did more to hurt us than to help us,’ Cuomo writes. ‘Anytime there was a function that needed to be performed by government, Trump instinctively withdrew.’” New York Now’s Dan Clark  “OVER THE PAST DECADE, more than 700 reviews of child deaths in New York were kept hidden by a state agency , decisions denying the public answers about whether Child Protective Services (CPS) workers failed those children. The most recent suppression stems from an unusually high-profile case: The January death of Thomas Valva, the autistic 8-year-old who had allegedly been beaten by his father, then forced to sleep in a freezing garage in Suffolk County, Long Island, where he froze to death. By law, after the death of a child in the CPS system, the state Office of Children and Family Services (OCFS) must create a report examining whether CPS workers followed required protocols in investigating allegations of abuse that had been reported prior to the fatality. But OCFS has discretion about whether to release the resulting report, and often employs an exemption that blocks disclosure — a step the agency has taken in the Valva case. ‘I’m just flabbergasted that they would take a position like that,’ said attorney Jon Norinsberg, who is representing Thomas Valva’s mother in a negligence case against Suffolk County.” Times Union’s Chris Bragg  “BUFFALO POLICE have released body camera footage of New York State Supreme Court Justice Mark Grisanti shoving an officer after a fight with his neighbor, then invoking his friendship with the mayor and family ties to law enforcement, before successfully avoiding arrest. Police said Grisanti was drunk at the time. Law360 obtained the videos of the police detaining Grisanti and his wife late last week through a Freedom of Information Law request. The profanity-laced footage reveals in detail that the state senator-turned-judge used physical force against police and justified it, repeatedly threatened officers, and touted his political connections... In the video, Justice Grisanti is seen charging toward and shoving an officer trying to arrest his wife as the officer threw her down on their front lawn after she refused to stop screaming. The judge was restrained by a second officer but repeatedly demanded his wife's release, while listing his close connections to powerful people in Buffalo, notably his ‘good friend’ Mayor Byron Brown and ‘cousin’ Deputy Police Commissioner Joseph Gramaglia.” Law360’s Frank G. Runyeon  A message from Uber: In order to raise the standard for independent work for all, government and business need to work together. That’s why Uber created our Working Together Priorities, which can help people who earn through app-based work receive more security, protection, and transparency. This work is already underway in California, where voters overwhelmingly approved Prop 22.      TRUMP'S NEW YORK  A FEDERAL JUDGE has handed Gov. Andrew Cuomo a victory in his long-running fight with the Trump administration over a prohibition on New Yorkers enrolling in expedited border crossing programs. The Department of Homeland Security imposed the prohibition in February, saying that New York’s new law allowing undocumented immigrants to obtain driver’s licenses made it impossible to properly vet applicants to the programs. But DHS decided to end the ban in July when it was forced to admit that it had made false claims in court filings. Officials had justified their actions by saying that New York’s decision to block federal agencies from obtaining DMV records was unique; several other states actually impose similar rules. In the opinion released on Tuesday, Southern District of New York Judge Jesse Furman wrote that the federal decision was “unlawful” from the get-go and that it should be vacated to “ensure that it cannot be reinstated.” “The decision was plainly arbitrary and capricious,” he wrote. POLITICO’s Bill Mahoney  “THE SUPREME COURT has cleared the Trump administration to proceed with its plan to end enumeration for the decennial census early, blocking a lower court order that required the government to continue with the count as originally planned through the end of October. The high court’s order Tuesday granting the Justice Department’s request for an emergency stay offered no explanation for the decision, which required the support of at least five justices. Justice Sonia Sotomayor issued a written dissent. After initially claiming it required an extension due to the coronavirus outbreak, the Trump administration switched gears this summer and said it would end enumeration a month early, by Sept. 30, so it could produce census data for apportionment of congressional districts for the next decade by the end of the year. Sotomayor, an appointee of President Barack Obama, was the only justice on the shorthanded, eight-member court to note her dissent. She called the harms from ending the count early ‘avoidable and intolerable.’” POLITICO’s Zach Montellaro and Josh Gerstein  ... 2020 VISION ...  “THE REPUBLICAN JEWISH Coalition is dropping a massive ad buy and launching an aggressive get-out-the-vote effort to assist Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) in his tough reelection bid for New York’s 1st congressional district, Jewish Insider has learned. Zeldin, a three-term incumbent, is being challenged in the district — which the Cook Political Report classifies as ‘Lean Republican’ — by chemistry professor Nancy Goroff. There are no recent public polls on the race, though an internal Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee poll puts Goroff in the lead. The RJC investment includes a $500,000 TV ad buy, $150,000 in digital advertising and $150,000 in direct mailers, people involved in the spend told JI.” Jewish Insider’s Jacob Kornbluh  ELECTIONLAND: POLITICO is partnering with Electionland , a ProPublica project that works with newsrooms to track voting issues around the country. The Electionland project covers problems that prevent eligible voters from casting their ballots during the 2020 elections. We’re part of a coalition of newsrooms around the country that are investigating issues related to voter registration, pandemic-related changes to voting, the shift to vote-by-mail, cybersecurity, voter education, misinformation, and more. Tell us here if you’re having trouble voting.  SPOTLIGHT  THE FIFTY: The Fifty is a series from POLITICO that examines the roles mayors and governors are playing amid pandemic, economic crisis and a national reckoning on race. The Fifty collects our best reporting on the governors and mayors shaping policy and driving politics and looks at the people and power players outside of Washington. Today's feature: Which states had the best pandemic response?      AROUND NEW YORK  — “The Department of Education is bailing out a school bus company owned by a major donor in one of Mayor Bill de Blasio’s biggest campaign finance scandals, agreeing to take over the firm for an undisclosed price.”  — The New York Philharmonic canceled its concerts through next June, joining Broadway and the Metropolitan Opera in making similar moves.  — More than half of city public school students have now opted out of attending in-person. The share choosing all-remote learning jumped to 52 percent.  — New York City’s pretrial jail population has increased by nearly 16 percent in the 100 days since the state weakened a sweeping bail reform measure.  — City schools have not yet determined their grading policy for the academic year now underway.  — Police rescued an injured hawk that was stranded in Brighton Beach.  — Five FDNY EMS members at the same Queens station have tested positive for the coronavirus.  — A Long Island inn was hit with more than $10,000 in fines for hosting an illegal Sweet 16 party, after 37 people connected to the event got Covid-19.  — The MTA is proposing a new rent agreement for its Grand Central tenants, allowing their payments to be based on their revenue.  — “Seduced: Inside the NXIVM Cult” debuts Sunday .  — The city is considering deep cuts to programs at transfer high schools, which are geared to students who aren’t on track to graduate on time.  — New York's largest health care system in coordination with the state is developing a regional surveillance system to monitor public health for early warning signs that Covid-19 may be reemerging, and testing out the kinks internally, in partnership with Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn.  SOCIAL DATA BY DANIEL LIPPMAN  HAPPY BIRTHDAY: Mike Feldman is 52 … Eli Lehrer, president of R Street … Peter Osnos (h/t son Evan) … former Nixon White House counsel John Dean is 82 … Leigh Farris, managing director at the Carlyle Group … Stephen Ohlemacher … The Boston Globe’s Victoria McGrane … CNN’s Annie Grayer ... Jacqui Gifford, editor-in-chief of Travel and Leisure (h/t husband Robert) … Jack Fitzpatrick, reporter at Bloomberg Government … Ralph Lauren is 81 … Alan Blinder is 75 … Nick Stanley … Tucker Foote, SVP and head of government and corporate affairs for North America at Mastercard — Q&A  SPOTTED: Eliot Spitzer at a corner table indoors at the Oakhurst Diner in Millerton, N.Y. on Saturday around noon. “He was wearing a Horace Mann shirt and sported some stubble,” our tipster said.  MAKING MOVES — Jen Cytryn has left the White House where she was associate director of the office of the senior adviser for policy. She is going to Hofstra law school.  MEDIAWATCH — per Talking Biz News: “Former Financial Times editor Lionel Barber is joining LBC, Britain’s biggest commercial news talk station, to host a new podcast series, ‘What Next? With Lionel Barber.’ The new podcast will focus on the post-pandemic life and will see the multi-award-winning journalist and author discover how the world is adapting to it, what needs to change and what lessons we have learnt that will shape our lives for the future.” … “Hayley Peterson has been named the director of business news at Business Insider. … Peterson has been chief correspondent.” …  … “Business Insider has hired Melkorka Licea as a senior wealth reporter. She started on Monday and will be covering the lifestyles of the rich and famous. Licea was previously at the New York Post, where she was a news reporter, enterprise reporter and features reporter.”  — Curbed has been folded into New York magazine. ... The NYT is shuttering its At War blog this week. Announcement from Lauren Katzenberg  IN MEMORIAM — “Former FDNY Commissioner Carlos Rivera, the department’s first Latino leader and its commander when terrorists first targeted the World Trade Center in a 1993 bombing, died Monday at the age of 87.”      REAL ESTATE  “FACEBOOK HAS just leased enough new office space in Manhattan to nearly triple its current local work force, including at one of the city’s most iconic buildings, the 107-year-old former main post office complex near Pennsylvania Station. Apple, which set up its first office in New York a decade ago, is expanding to another building in Manhattan. And Google and Amazon are stitching together corporate campuses in the city more quickly than anywhere else in the world. Amazon paid roughly $1 billion in March for the iconic Lord & Taylor building on Fifth Avenue. Despite a pandemic that has ravaged New York, hollowed out many of its office buildings and raised fundamental questions about its future, the four companies collectively known as Big Tech are all significantly expanding their footprint in the city, giving it a badly needed vote of confidence.” New York Times’ Matthew Haag    Follow us on Twitter Erin Durkin @erinmdurkin    Anna Gronewold @annagronewold Southern Tier sees Covid-19 spike — Mayoral contenders hold first forum — MTA faces 'suffocating' debt