7. Governors walk a narrow tightrope in a big tent  In liberal California, Democrats are the only game in town. They control every statewide office and wield Republican-proof supermajorities in the Legislature — and that adds up to big ambitions for progressive Democrats and their allies in organized labor.  Despite the national caricature of Newsom as a starry-eyed San Francisco liberal, in California he’s always been seen as more of a business-friendly centrist. He also has deep ties to a technology industry that has increasingly clashed with unions. That means Newsom is constantly trying to balance those constituencies as he faces decisions that will inevitably frustrate someone.  "I think it’s fair to say that organized labor has done a very good job of becoming influential in California and that business has done a good job of becoming un-influential over time and you have to appreciate the position the governor is in," said Jim Wunderman, CEO of a business coalition called the Bay Area Council. “This is a really important point we’re at now because the business position is not good," he added.  The shifting fortunes of Big Tech offer a prime example. Gig economy firms like Uber and Doordash are under intense pressure from organized labor, which championed a law that could upend their business models by forcing them to treat drivers as employees rather than independent contractors. Newsom has consistently advocated for a deal that could placate both sides by bridging the contractor-employee dichotomy, and he has stayed neutral on a tech-funded ballot initiative to get out from under the sweeping labor law.  A pandemic-induced recession has intensified those tensions. Democratic mayors, unions and liberal activists have pushed Newsom to raise taxes; business groups have warned that could derail a stuttering economy recovery. Newsom charted a middle course last week when he backed a labor-backed initiative to raise commercial property taxes, but Newsom also flatly rejected a union campaign to raise taxes on the most affluent Californians.  “There’s this tremendous chasm and there’s really no way to fit in between it without falling into it,” Wunderman said. “The tech industry has the benefit of knowing him and he understand the future is going to be different,” but “at the same time I do think he has a very focused concern on the plight of people and wants to be the governor who ensure the little guy isn’t getting screwed over.”  Carla Marinucci and Victoria Colliver contributed to this report. 7 reasons Gavin Newsom has the worst job in politics