The Trump plan, announced in his speech, is to establish a “1776 Commission” that will “promote patriotic education” and beat back the alleged slanders against the nation’s character. It’s likely to accomplish nothing. Likewise, the federal grant “to support the development of a pro-American curriculum that celebrates the truth about our nation’s great history” that he talked about at the National Archives Museum will likely achieve nothing concrete.  In attempting to place his personal, political mark on what children learn in schools, Trump is no originator. In a fine survey piece this week by Olivia B. Waxman in Time, we learn that the political quarrel over the past—what the history textbooks should say, which accounts are elevated and which suppressed in the classroom, who composes curricula—has been contested in every generation since the Civil War. The historical is the political. For all the anxiety Trump’s foray into classroom history is stirring up among horrified liberals, the only real surprise is how late he arrived on the field.  That doesn’t mean Trump’s speech was an exercise in futility. It expanded his usual attack on the press by essentially accusing the New York Times of the political corruption of our youth. Said Trump, “This project rewrites American history to teach our children that we were founded on the principle of oppression, not freedom.” It also aligned Trump against teachers—few of whom were going to vote for him anyway—and the educational establishment, once mocked by Trump’s spiritual godfather George Wallace, who liked to refer to “pointy-head college professors who can’t even park a bicycle straight.”  Since the earliest days of his presidency, Trump has sought to pit the “us” of himself and his crowd of cheering supporters against a nebulous “they”—that ever-expanding list of his enemies and foes, including but not limited to immigrants, the “deep state,” Democrats, reporters, note-takers in meetings, judges who defy him, residents of blue states, the makers of dishwashers, Mitt Romney, the Washington establishment, Muslims, his critics, the Chinese, former Cabinet members, whistleblowers and practically anybody who contradicts him. Trump stirs up and harnesses human animus better than any of his contemporaries, and it’s just like him to construct a fraudulent line of association that links rioting anarchists to revisionist historians to establishment journalists and finally to the educational establishment and wraps them all up in one tidy ball for kicking.  It's also a notable departure for a man known almost entirely for his inability to look past the present moment. Trump, officially, is no longer content with being the mere arbiter of the present, requiring compliance and agreement from everybody in the room. By attacking journalists, appointing a commission to lock down history in a way that pleases him and giving grant money for a “pro-America” curriculum, Trump intends to assert a new ownership interest in the past. “Who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past,” George Orwell wrote in Nineteen Eighty-Four. With his National Archives Museum diatribe, Trump has staked his personal claim.  ******  The dumbest thing William Faulkner ever wrote was, “The past is never dead. It’s not even past.” Like, that makes no sense. Send your favorite “past” lines to [email protected]. My email alerts considered a career in education. My Twitter feed was an Education major. My RSS feed’s favorite movie is Out of the Past. Trump’s War on The New York Times Hits the Classroom