Crossroads adds more Lott, Breaux clients Presented by Robinhood  With Daniel Lippman  NEW BUSINESS: Crossroads Strategies has signed two more lobbying clients that former Sens. Trent Lott (R-Miss.) and John Breaux (D-La.) previously represented at Squire Patton Boggs: the City of Baton Rouge, La., and Nissan. Squire Patton Boggs abruptly ousted Lott in June. Breaux left the firm and the pair landed at Crossroads a week later. They’d previously migrated several other clients to Crossroads, including the American Shrimp Processors Association; the LHC Group, a Louisiana health care provider; and Sanderson Farms, a Mississippi chicken producer, according to disclosure filings  — And former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and his former chief of staff, Rich Bagger, have registered to lobby for Puerto Rico’s Fiscal Agency and Financial Advisory Authority through Christie’s firm, Christie 55 Solutions. Christie was already a consultant to the authority, as POLITICO reported in July, and is also registered to lobby for the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority.  WAGENSELLER RETURNS TO SIGNAL: Shelby Wagenseller is returning to the lobbying and public affairs firm Signal Group after serving as deputy chief operating officer for the Democratic National Convention committee and as a senior communications adviser to the Milwaukee 2020 Host Committee. She’ll be a vice president in the firm’s communications practice. She also worked on the 2012 and 2016 Democratic conventions. Signal is also adding Sunjay Lee and Mackenzie Mertikas as communications associates. Separately, the firm is starting a new practice group focused on water issues and headed up by Mae Stevens.  Good afternoon, and welcome to PI. Tips: [email protected]. Twitter: @theodoricmeyer.  A message from Robinhood: We believe everyone should be able to invest.  That’s why we’re meeting people with free, digestible financial news. Simple and direct educational resources. And an app that helps you invest at your own pace, on your own terms. Because the financial system should be built to work for everyone. Learn More  FLYING IN (VIRTUALLY): The National Multifamily Housing Council, which represents the apartment industry, is holding a virtual fly-in this week to press lawmakers and the Trump administration on rental assistance and housing finance reform, among other issues. They'll meet with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, Rep. Jim Clyburn (D-S.C.), Sen.Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Federal Housing Finance Agency Director Mark Calabria, according to the trade group.  HOW HOTELS ARE PRESSING FOR A RESCUE: The New York Times’ Eric Lipton and Jeanna Smialek have some new details on hotels’ “aggressive campaign to convince Congress, the Treasury Department and others that the sector will go bust without a big bailout.” The hotels have been lobbying for help with loans that have been packaged into commercial mortgage-backed securities. “‘We need you to act — as often as possible — through calls, letters, and social posts to flood the offices of members of Congress,’ the American Hotel & Lodging Association wrote on Thursday in an email to its members.”  — “At a Senate Banking Committee hearing on Wednesday, a top industry lobbyist said Congress should make a ‘technical amendment’ to an earlier relief package to explicitly allow a Treasury bailout. The committee’s chairman, Senator Michael D. Crapo, who has written two letters in recent months pushing Mr. Mnuchin and the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, to act, said during the hearing that the commercial real estate industry, including hotels, was “one of the most significant industries to lack access” to relief funds.” But the push “has put the Trump administration in a tough spot. … Industry lobbyists privately acknowledge that any effort to bail out the industry will generate criticism, given [President Donald] Trump’s dual role as both president and owner of a small luxury hotel brand.”  TRADE GROUP DRAFTED EXECUTIVE ORDER SIMILAR TO THE ONE TRUMP SIGNED: Emails “obtained by ProPublica show that the meat industry may have had a hand in” an executive order issued by President Donald Trump in April meant to keep meatpacking plants open, ProPublica’s Michael Grabell and Bernice Yeung report. “Just a week before the order was issued, the meat industry’s trade group drafted an executive order that bears striking similarities to the one the president signed.”  — “The draft that Julie Anna Potts, the president of the North American Meat Institute, sent to top officials at the U.S. Department of Agriculture was written using the framework of an official executive order and stressed the importance of the food supply chain and how outbreaks had reduced production — themes later addressed in the president’s order. … In a statement, Potts said that the meat institute had been working as a liaison between the government and industry on many issues related to COVID-19. ‘Trade associations of all types routinely suggest legislative language, comment on proposed rules, and other provisions that are shared with the government,’ she said.”  TIKTOK DEAL POSES A WASHINGTON CONUNDRUM FOR ORACLE: POLITICO’s Steven Overly reports that Oracle’s partnership with TikTok could put the company “in conflict with its own push for social media regulation in Washington.” Oracle “has both directly and indirectly lobbied to pare down a key set of legal protections that shield internet companies from lawsuits over the content they host.”  — “The protections, afforded under a section of federal law known as Section 230, are considered crucial to companies like Facebook and Google-owned YouTube that host billions of user-generated posts and videos each year. But they’ve been targeted by Oracle and at least one advocacy group funded by Oracle, whose core business until now hasn’t been as reliant on those protections as its competitors.”  — The Wall Street Journal’s Georgia Wells, Aaron Tilley and John McKinnon, meanwhile, unearthed more of the deal’s backstory. One of TikTok’s investors, Sequoia Capital, “used its own connections to push the administration to allow TikTok to continue operating in the U.S., say people familiar with the discussions. Doug Leone, the firm’s global managing partner who took a lead role lobbying on TikTok’s behalf, has donated tens of thousands of dollars to Republican candidates this election season along with his wife, including to the president’s re-election campaign. Mr. Leone also held a reception at his Silicon Valley home for Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in January.”  JOBS REPORT  — Food Allergy Research & Education has hired Kevin Silard Sr. as senior director of corporate sponsorship. He was previously the National Governors Association’s director of corporate donations.  — ROKK Solutions has promoted Lindsay Singleton to managing director. She joined the firm in 2018 as a senior vice president.  New Joint Fundraisers  None  New PACs  Bigger Than One Man (PAC)  Bootheel Plus Democrat Rally (PAC)  Elections Matter - Nebraska (PAC)  Ignite Kentucky (PAC)  Legal Immigrants for USA, Inc. (Super PAC)  South Sound Blue (Super PAC)  We Got a Voice 2 PAC (Super PAC)  New Lobbying Registrations  Alpex International, LLC: DB Group America, LTD  Catapult Policy Strategies LLC: May Mobility  Christie 55 Solutions LLC: Puerto Rico Fiscal Agency and Financial Advisory Authority  Cornerstone Government Affairs, Inc.: American Chemistry Council OBO its Center for Biocide Chemistries  Cory Crowley & Company, LLC: Microsoft  Crossroads Strategies, LLC: City of Baton Rouge and Parish of East Baton Rouge  Crossroads Strategies, LLC: Guardian Centers of Georgia, LLC  Crossroads Strategies, LLC: Nissan North America, Inc.  Davidoff Hutcher & Citron, LLP: Village of Bellport, New York  Direct Chassislink, Inc.: Direct Chassislink, Inc.  Downs Government Affairs: Minnesota State College Southeast  Fox Potomac Resources, LLC: Vita Inclinata, Inc.  Hobart Hallaway & Quayle Ventures, LLC: Scaletta Moloney Armoring Corp. dba Scaletta Armoring  Hobart Hallaway & Quayle Ventures, LLC: The O'Gara Group, Inc.  Hogan Lovells US LLP: Trilogy Home Healthcare  Perkins Coie, LLP: George E. Warren LLC  The Russell Group, Inc.: Charter Communications, Inc.  Whitmer & Worrall, LLC: MES Fire  A message from Robinhood: This is the future of investing. Investors are becoming younger and more diverse. So we’re meeting them with content that’s made for them. ● 250% increase in unique daily visitors to our Learn resources since January 2020  ● 20M+ weekly newsletter subscribers  ● 1.9M monthly unique podcast listeners for Robinhood Snacks in June Learn More  New Lobbying Terminations  Becker & Poliakoff, P.A.: American Factoring Association  Hogan Lovells US LLP: Frontier Communications  Hogan Lovells US LLP: Virginia Department of Rail and Public Transportation  Hogan Lovells US LLP: Xanterra Parks and Resorts Inc  Law Firm of Alan J. Thiemann: Assn of Test Publishers  Perkins Coie, LLP: George E. Warren LLC  Upstream Consulting, Inc.: AveXis, Inc Crossroads adds more Lott, Breaux clients