How a nonprofit is preparing to derail a Green New Deal Presented by Robinhood  With Daniel Lippman  HOW A NONPROFIT IS PREPARING TO DERAIL A GREEN NEW DEAL: A nonprofit dedicated to combating the Green New Deal and championing natural gas has been working to win over lawmakers and build grassroots support this summer as it prepares for the threat of a Joe Biden administration — or the opportunity of President Donald Trump’s second term. The nonprofit, called the Empowerment Alliance, was set up last year and is funded by anonymous donors. Terry Holt, a Republican operative whose firm, HDMK, is consulting for the alliance, told PI last year that the group was up against a “flood of left-wing money that would have us virtually shut down” the natural gas industry.  — The Empowerment Alliance has recruited more than 100,000 people to its grassroots network by running digital ads asking voters whether they “stand with President Trump’s American Energy Plan” and warning that Russia and Saudi Arabia are “Trying to Kill American Energy Independence,” according to the group. It’s also persuaded House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and dozens of other Republican lawmakers, governors and state attorneys general to sign a “Declaration of Energy Independence” championing “domestic natural gas discovered, produced, and refined in the U.S.”  — “Though it won’t make the headlines, increasing natural gas production has resulted in lower energy costs for American families while reducing air pollution,” Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) wrote in an op-ed in July in which he noted he’d signed the nonprofit’s declaration. “And last year, the U.S. led the world in reducing carbon dioxide emissions, while providing affordable energy to everyone.”  Good afternoon, and welcome to PI. Tips: [email protected]. Twitter: @theodoricmeyer.  A message from Robinhood: We believe everyone should be able to invest.  That’s why we’re meeting people with free, digestible financial news. Simple and direct educational resources. And an app that helps you invest at your own pace, on your own terms. Because the financial system should be built to work for everyone. Learn More  GYMS AND HEALTH CLUBS ‘DISAPPOINTED’ BY SENATE REPUBLICANS BILL: Add the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association to the list of trade groups underwhelmed by Senate Republicans’ latest coronavirus relief bill, which failed to advance in a vote this afternoon. “As the Senate prepares to vote on additional COVID-19 pandemic relief, we are disappointed by the continued lack of relief for the nation’s health and fitness industry, a sector that has been exceptionally impacted by the pandemic,” Brent Darden, the trade group’s president and chief executive, wrote in a letter on Wednesday to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer.  — Without immediate assistance, the industry estimates that over 10,000 health and fitness clubs could go out of business by the end of 2020,” Darden warned in the letter. The trade group is pushing Congress to set up “grant programs or programs with some form of loan forgiveness,” such as a second round of Paycheck Protection Program loans and an expansion of the program “that waives the affiliation rule or counts employees by full time equivalents rather than headcount on payroll.”  EMHOFF HEADLINES ‘LAWYERS FOR BIDEN’ EVENT: Sen. Kamala Harris’ husband, Doug Emhoff, and her brother-in-law, Tony West, headlined a ‘Lawyers for Biden’ fundraiser on Wednesday that drew more than 700 people, according to a pool report. The event had brought in $960,000 by the time it started. Emhoff is on leave from DLA Piper, where he’s a partner, and West is Uber’s chief legal officer. Jonathan Henes, a partner in Kirkland & Ellis’ New York office, introduced them.  DEJOY TAPS REPUBLICAN LOBBYIST TO AID OUTREACH TO CONGRESS: Postmaster General Louis DeJoy told postal officials on Wednesday “that he had selected Peter Pastre, a former Republican congressional aide and insurance lobbyist, to act as a liaison for the agency with Congress and state and local governments, according to people familiar with the discussions,” The New York Times’ Ken Vogel, Hailey Fuchs and Luke Broadwater report. “The move came as the Postal Service was facing mounting political and operational crises. Mr. Trump has raised concerns about the security of voting by mail, and the independent quasi-governmental agency has struggled to overcome a delivery slowdown and a dire financial forecast — all while Democrats accuse Mr. DeJoy and the agency’s Republican-majority governing board of doing the president’s bidding.”  — “Mr. Pastre, who worked in the 1980s as an aide to the Republican former Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming and made his reputation in Washington as a politically active government relations executive for the insurance industry, was chosen in part because he was seen by Postal Service management as someone who could reach out to Democrats, according to people familiar with the selection process. Mr. Pastre worked for 16 years at MetLife, where he directed the company’s federal political action committee, which has donated more to Republicans in recent years.”  SELF-PROMOTION ISN’T CHEAP: “When Seema Verma, the Trump administration's top Medicaid official, went to a reporter's home in November 2018 for a ‘Girl's Night’ thrown in her honor, taxpayers footed the bill to organize the event: $2,933,” POLITICO’s Dan Diamond and Adam Cancryn report. “When Verma wrote an op-ed on Fox News' website that fall, touting President Donald Trump's changes to Obamacare, taxpayers got charged for one consultant's price to place it: $977. And when consultants spent months promoting Verma to win awards like Washingtonian magazine's ‘Most Powerful Women in Washington’ and appear on high-profile panels, taxpayers got billed for that too: more than $13,000.”  — “The efforts were steered by Pam Stevens, a Republican communications consultant and former Trump administration official working to raise the brand of Verma, who leads the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The prices were the amount a consulting company billed the government for her services, based on her invoices, which were obtained by congressional Democrats.”  — “They are among the revelations included in a sweeping congressional investigation chronicling how Verma spent more than $3.5 million on a range of GOP-connected consultants, who polished her public profile, wrote her speeches and Twitter posts, brokered meetings with high-profile individuals — and even billed taxpayers for connecting Verma with fellow Republicans in Congress.”  IF YOU MISSED IT ON WEDNESDAY: “TikTok’s Chinese parent, ByteDance Ltd., is discussing with the U.S. government possible arrangements that would allow the popular video-sharing app to avoid a full sale of its U.S. operations, according to people familiar with the matter,” The Wall Street Journal’s Miriam Gottfried, Georgia Wells and Kate Davidson report. “Discussions around such an option have risen in prominence since the Chinese government took steps that make a sale to a U.S. technology giant like Microsoft Corp. more difficult, the people said. They take place against a fast-approaching deadline that President Trump imposed for TikTok to agree to a sale of its U.S. operations or else be shut down, and as geopolitical wrangling over the app intensifies.”  Jobs Report  — The Canadian quantum-computing company D-Wave Systems has hired Allison Schwartz as its global government relations and public affairs leader. She was previously an in-house lobbyist for ANDE.  New Joint Fundraisers  GOP Senate Victory 2020 (Sens. Susan Collins, Steve Daines, Joni Ernst, Cory Gardner, Martha McSally, Thom Tillis and David Perdue; Kansans for Marshall; Tuberville for Senate, Inc.)  New PACs  American Hispanic Patriots (PAC)  Bowie County Patriots (Hybrid PAC)  Commonwealth Educational Opportunities PAC, Inc. (Super PAC)  Indiana for Biden-Harris (PAC)  Star Power PAC (Super PAC)  The Manitowoc Company, Inc. Political Action Committee (PAC)  United States Citizen African Immigrants (PAC)  We Got You Elected (PAC)  Win America Back PAC (Super PAC)  New Lobbying Registrations  Adams and Reese, LLP: Mobile Area Chamber of Commerce  American Strategic Partners: American Bus Association  Barker Leavitt, PLLC (SKA Mr. James C. Barker): Operation Underground Railroad  Bockorny Group, Inc.: GovBiz Advantage, Inc. (on behalf of Arcimoto, Inc. and Aptera Motors Corp.)  Bose Public Affairs Group: Alticor  Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP: Crowell & Moring LLP obo Cogitativo, Inc.  Capgov, LLC: North Dakota State University (NDSU)  Center Road Solutions: Maternal Mental Health Leadership Alliance  Dendreon Pharmaceuticals, LLC: Dendreon Pharmaceuticals, LLC  Holland & Knight LLP: Iris Automation Inc.  Invariant LLC: The RealReal, Inc.  J.A. Green and Company (formerly LLC): Carahsoft Technology Corporation  Rich Feuer Anderson: The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation  Sunday Creek Horizons, LLC: Scioto Valley Local School District  A message from Robinhood: This is the future of investing. Investors are becoming younger and more diverse. So we’re meeting them with content that’s made for them. ● 250% increase in unique daily visitors to our Learn resources since January 2020  ● 20M+ weekly newsletter subscribers  ● 1.9M monthly unique podcast listeners for Robinhood Snacks in June Learn More  New Lobbying Terminations  ASARCO LLC: ASARCO LLC  Emmer Consulting, Inc. (formerly known as Emmer Consulting, P.C.): Pittsburgh Regional Health Initiative (PRHI) How a nonprofit is preparing to derail a Green New Deal