The SCOTUS sprint begins Presented by  SCOTUS SKED -- President Donald Trump officially nominated Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court on Saturday, kicking off a lightning-quick — and absolutely brutal — confirmation process on Capitol Hill. Barrett will begin meeting with senators on Tuesday, although some Dems, including Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, are refusing to meet with her in protest of her election-year nomination.  And White House chief of staff Mark Meadows told CBS’ “Face The Nation” that "if all goes well", the Senate will fill the vacancy before the November election. That would make it an unprecedented confirmation, as no SCOTUS nominee has ever been confirmed that close to a presidential election.  Here’s the SCOTUS Judiciary hearing schedule, per Burgess:  —Monday, 10/12: Opening statements  —Tuesday, 10/13: First round of questions  —Wednesday, 10/14: Second round of questions and closed session  —Thursday, 10/15: Outside witnesses  —Thursday, 10/22: Report the nominee out of committee  SO, what are the chances that Barrett makes it over the finish line? Pretty high, according to congressional Republicans. She has rock solid support on the right, especially among conservatives and anti-abortion activists. And she’s battle-tested, having already been through the Senate’s confirmation process for her current judgeship.  Of course, Dems will try to land some blows during her high-profile confirmation hearing. And the Senate GOP is working with a slim 53-seat majority. But barring some kind of bombshell or unforeseen roadblock, the feeling among Senate Republicans is that Barrett’s confirmation is all but certain. More on this from Burgess: https://politi.co/337BYLn .  In fact … “President Trump and Senate Majority Leader McConnell are so confident they'll confirm Barrett that they're already thinking about who to tap to replace her on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit, based in Chicago,” reports Axios’ Alayna Treene .  Related reads: “Supreme Court Fight Returns Lindsey Graham to Spotlight,” by WSJ’s Siobhan Hughes: https://on.wsj.com/343kyPl ; and “Democrats say Republicans will pay price at polls for confirming Barrett before election,” via Nolan McCaskill: https://politi.co/369RnN6 .  Amy Coney Barrett, a federal appellate judge expeted to be the next Supreme Court nominee, is pictured speaking in 2018. | Robert Franklin/South Bend Tribune via AP  A message from McDonald's: Ron started as a crew member at McDonald’s in Oakland, CA where he found an exciting path. Thanks to college tuition assistance from McDonald’s, Ron became the first college graduate in his family, and today works in Operations at McDonald’s headquarters. Learn how Ron and others succeed at McDonald’s.  DEMS STAY DISCIPLINED -- In reacting to Trump's SCOTUS pick, Dems made clear what their messaging strategy is going to be: make it all about health care. In tweets, statements and Sunday news show appearances, Democrats across the board warned Americans that their health care and the popular protections for pre-existing conditions are at stake if Barrett is confirmed, pointing to the Obamacare lawsuit that will come before the Supreme Court in mid-November.  Schumer even sent a letter to his Democratic colleagues urging them to stay focused on health care and the potential demise of the Affordable Care Act. “All the data show that with COVID raging, the number one priority for the American people is health care — its affordability, accessibility and quality,” Schumer wrote in the Dear Colleague note. “We must focus like a laser on health care because Judge Barrett’s record is so clear on this issue.” The deets from Burgess: https://politi.co/30bTEUj .  Trump, meanwhile, is also apparently making it about health care. “Obamacare will be replaced with a MUCH better, and FAR cheaper, alternative if it is terminated in the Supreme Court. Would be a big WIN for the USA!” Trump tweeted, which only handed fresh ammo to Democrats.  Related reads: “Democrats Aim for Court Fight Focused on Policy, Not Personality,” from Bloomberg’s Jennifer Epstein and Laura Davison: https://bloom.bg/2S5nQfd ; and “Democrats Don’t Want to Get Personal in Debate Over Barrett,” via NYT’s Shane Goldmacher and Katie Glueck: https://nyti.ms/3mQqnIi .  MUCK IT UP -- As we’ve said before, Senate Democrats can’t derail Trump’s nominee if Mitch McConnell has the votes. And they can’t even slow it down much, either. Here’s what Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) told ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday: “We could slow it down perhaps a matter of hours, maybe days at the most, but we can’t stop the outcome,” he said. “What we should do is to address this now respectfully.”  But Democrats *can* make life a little more miserable for Republicans — especially the vulnerable GOP lawmakers who are up for reelection and are itching to hit the campaign trail. Here are some of the procedural weapons that Dems could use to obstruct Republicans, per Andrew:  —Invoke the two-hour rule  —Object to going on recess  —Deny Republicans a quorum  —Force roll-call votes on points of order and motions to adjourn  The full story: https://politi.co/335pnrU .  Related reads: “Dems Can’t Block Barrett—So They’ll Use Her as 2020 Cudgel,” per The Daily Beast’s Sam Brodey: https://bit.ly/2EDbOXg ; and “Democrats debate whether to engage — or withdraw — in Supreme Court fight,” by WaPo’s Seung Min Kim and Paul Kane: https://wapo.st/3i35KFe .  HAPPY MONDAY! Welcome to Huddle, the play-by-play guide to all things Capitol Hill, on this September 28, where your host knows there’s no use crying over spilled milk — but can we make an exception for an entire tank of spilled wine? !  MONDAY’S MOST CLICKED: IB Times’ story on Sen. Lindsey Graham pleading for campaign cash on Fox News drew the most clicks.  THE 2020 PLOT TWIST YOU DIDN’T KNOW YOU NEEDED -- How can 2020 get any crazier, you ask? Well, a deadlocked Electoral College could force the House to step in and determine the fate of the presidency — a once-in-a-century phenomenon that has only happened a few times in history. And both Trump and Speaker Nancy Pelosi have begun to seriously consider the possibility of the election fight coming to Congress. Pelosi has privately raised the idea to her leadership team and even sent out a “Dear Colleague” letter yesterday emphasizing how important it is for Democrats to win House state delegations.  Bres, Kyle and Heather explain more: “Under that scenario, which hasn’t happened since 1876, every state’s delegation gets a single vote. Who receives that vote is determined by an internal tally of each lawmaker in the delegation. This means the presidency may not be decided by the party that controls the House itself but by the one that controls more state delegations in the chamber. And right now, Republicans control 26 delegations to Democrats’ 22, with Pennsylvania tied and Michigan a 7-6 plurality for Democrats, with a 14th seat held by independent Justin Amash.  “A battle inside the House could be brutal, even more politically bare-knuckled than Trump and Senate Republicans pushing through a Supreme Court nominee days before the election. In some states, a single seat could decide the partisan makeup of a delegation. There could be extended legal challenges over declaring victors in House races, as national party leaders and their legal teams dive headlong into the results for individual races at the county or even precinct level.” The story: https://politi.co/3mSRQJD .  In other House congressional race news: “In Colorado, Fiery Political Novice Aims for a Seat in the House,” by NYT’s Carl Hulse: https://nyti.ms/3mWFQqk .  SIGNS OF LIFE? -- Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin spoke by phone Friday about a potential coronavirus relief deal, per Pelosi’s aide Drew Hammill. And Pelosi told CNN’s Jake Tapper that she still believes “we can come to an agreement” and “I'm hoping for a deal.” She also acknowledged that House Dems may offer up their own bill on the floor this week, but said she would “rather have a deal which puts money in people’s pockets than to have a rhetorical argument.”  But Pelosi also emphasized that Dems have already come down significantly on their offer — their latest package is expected to cost around $2.4 trillion — and made clear she’s not interested in coming down any further. “But if they do not want to go to that place, if they’re not going to meet the needs of the American people, if they’re not ready to do what is necessary to crush the virus, to honor our heroes, our health care workers, our teachers, our transportation, sanitation, first responders, police and fire, if they don’t want to recognize that these people are risking their lives to save lives, and now they will lose their jobs, to the tune of millions of people … and then go on unemployment insurance, is that smart? I don't think so.”  Notable … The House floor schedule this week includes the “Possible Consideration of Legislation Related to the Coronavirus Pandemic.”  Related read: “Centrist Democrats got their COVID bill, now they want a vote,” by The Hill’s Mike Lillis and Scott Wong: https://bit.ly/30eQxuS .  RETURN OF THE TAX RETURNS -- The New York Times dropped a bombshell yesterday, unveiling two decades worth of Trump’s tax returns and promising to publish a series of stories over the next few weeks. The big takeaway from the first piece — titled “Long-Concealed Records Show Trump's Chronic Losses and Years of Income Tax Avoidance” — is that Trump only paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, and zero dollars in 10 of the 15 years prior.  House Democrats, of course, have been trying to get their hands on Trump’s tax returns for a while, but the lawsuit is tied up in court. Here’s the statement from House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal: “Now, Donald Trump is the boss of the agency he considers an adversary. It is essential that the IRS’s presidential audit program remain free of interference. Today’s report underscores the importance of the Ways and Means Committee’s ongoing lawsuit to access Mr. Trump’s tax returns and ensure the presidential audit program is functioning effectively, without improper influence.”  FINALLY, SOME GOOD NEWS -- “Back from brink of death, Mark DeSaulnier is ready to work and run again,” via Tal Kopan of the San Francisco Chronicle: https://bit.ly/2GgxngZ .  I MADE IT NICE -- In another sign that the Senate GOP majority is in jeopardy this November, the historically right-leaning Chamber of Commerce is now planning to make nice with Senate Dems. The dispatch from Alex Isenstadt: “Jack Howard, the Chamber’s senior vice president of congressional and public affairs, announced during a Friday morning staff video conference that the organization would be engaging in an ‘all-hands-on-deck … serious, sustained’ effort to ‘normalize our relationships’ with Senate Democrats, according to a clip of the meeting obtained by POLITICO.  “The remarks come with Democrats leading Republican senators in the polls in several key states — and with the pro-business, traditionally conservative Chamber facing a precarious moment. The group has clashed with President Donald Trump on issues including trade and immigration and is now facing an internal revolt over its decision to endorse a slate of vulnerable freshmen House Democrats for reelection. The move represented a major shift for the Chamber, which has long endorsed and funded Republican candidates and backed few Democrats in recent years.” More: https://politi.co/3mULFVg . WARS: “'Save Texas': Dan Crenshaw stars in Avengers-style campaign ad,” from the Washington Examiner’s Madison Dibble: https://washex.am/36frYSm .      TRANSITIONS  Caroline Brennan is now scheduler for Rep. Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.). She is the former scheduler for former Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas).  Ross Brennan is now senior legislative assistant at the Congressional Progressive Caucus Center. He most recently worked as senior legislative assistant to Rep. David Cicilline (D-R.I.).  TODAY IN CONGRESS  The House and Senate are out.  TODAY IN CONGRESS  Quiet.  TRIVIA  FRIDAY’S WINNER: Bruce Brown was the first person to correctly guess that two Supreme Court Justices have been featured on U.S. currency: Salmon P. Chase, who appeared on the $10,000 bill, and John Marshall, who appeared on the $500 bill, before such bills were discontinued in 1969.  TODAY’S QUESTION: What was the name of the bar in Philadelphia where George Washington and co. celebrated signing the constitution — and racked up a massive bar tab? The first person to correctly guess gets a mention in the next edition of Huddle. Send your best guess to [email protected] .  GET HUDDLE emailed to your phone each morning.  A message from McDonald's: Ron always knew he could go places, he just didn’t know where to start. So he applied for a job at McDonald’s, where he found an exciting path and free college tuition assistance. Ron’s drive to succeed and support from his Manager helped make him the first in his family to graduate college. Today, he puts his college degree work as an Operations Associate at McDonald’s headquarters. There are tens of thousands of stories like Ron’s at McDonald’s, where restaurant employees take multiple paths to learn and grow. We offer programs and benefits like Archways to Opportunity®, which has expanded access to education for more than 60,000 crew members and managers while providing more than $125M in tuition assistance. Learn how Ron and others build careers at McDonald’s.  Follow us on Twitter Melanie Zanona @MZanona The SCOTUS sprint begins