The Boltzes, who live in a rural area half an hour outside Pittsburgh, find themselves squarely between their children. Their son who lives next door is more conservative than they are and supports Trump. Their daughter in Seattle and their son in Chicago, whom they hope to see soon happily married to his male partner, are adamant that Trump be removed.  “It’s an interesting place to sit as parents,” said Marlin, 63 and recently retired after a long career at a machine manufacturing company. “We consider ourselves as moderate. Conservative on fiscal issues and liberal on gay marriage. There are no candidates that fit. If I had a spreadsheet, I’d be trying to fill it out to say: Who do I think can pull the country back together? I have never been this undecided this close to an election.”  When the first of three debates between Trump and Biden begins Tuesday evening, as many as 1 in 10 voters — enough to swing the election either way — will still be searching for the thing that finally seals their choice. National polls in recent days have reported that anywhere from 3 percent to 11 percent of voters are unsure or might yet switch sides.  These undecideds have heard the jokes and insults aimed at people who can’t see the differences between Trump and Biden, but that does nothing to ease their doubts. In interviews, these battleground-state voters spoke of feeling a civic duty to remain open to the candidates’ pitches on Tuesday night, and a desire to see how they perform under pressure.  Many still like the idea of Trump as disrupter, the non-politician giving the Washington system a hefty dose of shock treatment, yet they are appalled by his languid approach to the coronavirus pandemic or disgusted by his antipathy toward immigrants and refugees.  Many have always liked Biden, but they worry about whether he’s lost a step or about whether he would stand up to the left wing of his own party.  “I’ll decide based on the debates,” said George Cottingham, a 25-year-old music production student in Racine, Wis. “I want to see a sense of purpose. I always can tell if someone’s competent by seeing how they present themselves.”  Cottingham will be casting his first vote in a presidential election, but he liked Trump in 2016 and is leaning toward him again this time.  He said he sees the coronavirus as a greater threat than Trump seems to, but he says the president’s skepticism about wearing masks is a reasonable ploy: “Honestly, everyone should be wearing a mask, but Trump says things against it to keep people from freaking out, and I get it that he’s trying to keep everything together.”  Some undecideds turn out to be people who’ve long felt alienated from the two big political parties, who voted for Libertarian Gary Johnson or Green Party candidate Jill Stein in 2016 and now think their vote may have greater impact if they can make their peace with Biden or Trump.  Roan Kirschbaum, 28, who studies sound design in Oshkosh, Wis., and is looking for work, has voted only for Green Party candidates in the past, but he’s open to either Trump or Biden this time and hopes they’ll use the debate to address how social media platforms are warping the country’s political discussion by feeding people evermore extreme views.  “It’s a vicious attack on human well-being and I don’t hear either candidate talking about it,” he said.  Kirschbaum said that although Trump “is better than Biden at listening to the American people, the problem is then he just doesn’t care about doing what’s right. Like on the virus, he wanted to keep people from panicking, but he won’t admit that it’s good to wear masks. Would it be any different under Democratic leadership? Biden is more pro-science, but I don’t know.”  Some undecided voters aren’t really voters at all. They belong to the faction that in most presidential elections is just as big as the Democrats or Republicans — non-voters.  Pete Jordan’s indecision is rooted in exhaustion. An independent who leans Democratic, he voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and said he wanted her “to win real bad. It didn’t happen. I was punched in the throat.”  But Jordan’s distaste for Trump has diminished over time. He can’t stomach Fox News’s cheerleading for the president, but he also thinks CNN and MSNBC became “a joke” by railing against Trump no matter what.  “Everybody knows the guy’s an a------, but do I have to hear it 24/7/365?” asked Jordan, who lives in Becker County, Minn., near the North Dakota border and not far from where Trump held a rally last week.  Still, he said, “Donald Trump got elected and my 401(k) went up about 35 percent, so how can I hate the man for that? But his narcissistic brain won’t allow him to shut his piehole. He has to be the center of attention. Shut up and govern.”  Jordan’s view of the Democrats has soured over time: He thought Democratic senators grilled Supreme Court nominee Brett M. Kavanaugh too harshly over allegations of past sexual assault. And closer to home in Minnesota, the violence that followed Black Lives Matter protests after George Floyd’s killing by Minneapolis police deepened his disillusionment.  Jordan, 57, plans to watch the debates hoping Biden will give him a reason to vote for him. But if the election were held tomorrow, he said, he would likely stay home.  “I’m so up in the air right now,” he said. “I just don’t have the patience for all this s--- anymore.”  After discounting leaners, third-party voters and non-voters, there remain a solid group of people who are simply stuck between Trump and Biden. Many, like Karen and Marlin Boltz, are social liberals and fiscal conservatives who find no echo of their beliefs in Washington politics.  The Boltzes, lifelong Republicans, want the debates to reveal what they say news coverage of the campaign has not: Who will address the cost of health care? Who will support protests for racial justice but stand firm against violence? Who can actually bring people together?  Four years ago, the couple watched the debates and liked Trump’s outsider stance but worried that he made outrageous slurs against immigrants.  “They have made it impossible for anyone to come here,” Karen said. “Why would you do that?”  “I thought Trump was saying all this stuff about the wall but once he gets advisers, they will pull him back,” Marlin said. “But that didn’t happen. And I didn’t see the tweets coming. I don’t like it. It’s not very presidential-like.”  The Boltzes pray before dinner, attend church every Sunday and believe America should be proud to be a destination for people who live under repressive regimes around the world.  “This ‘America First’ thing doesn’t sit well with me,” Marlin said. “The GOP promotes a view of the world of scarcity. As if there is not enough to go around. And I don’t see that. There’s plenty to go around.”  Karen avoids watching cable news because it seems like wall-to-wall Trump denunciation or adulation, depending on the channel. She listens to NPR every morning because the reporting seems more factual. But she’ll watch the debates to try to see for herself whether Trump “might be crazier and more wild in the next four years” or if Biden can avoid a huge expansion of the public sector.  “We don’t want the government to be our mum,” Karen said.  A thousand miles west, in rural Minnesota, where Erin Tollefsrud teaches refugee children and is a single mother of her own son, that same wish for a president who is openhearted yet tightfisted hangs over her anticipation of the debate.  Tollefsrud, 35, thought early this year that she’d finally found a candidate who reflects her concerns about climate change, education and racial justice. She liked Andrew Yang in the Democratic primary race, but now she’s torn. She’s suspicious of Democrats like Biden who she sees as unfamiliar with and unsympathetic to rural residents and gun owners.  But she’s appalled by Trump’s Twitter persona and coarse rhetoric at rallies. And she’s worried that “there’s no fiscal conservative in this race.”  Still, she likes the attention Trump pays to rural America and she thinks of him as someone who doesn’t flip-flop, who tells it like it is.  “Neither candidate represents me,” she said. “Both are old, white, male and rich.”  Tollefsrud is a classic swing voter, casting ballots for George W. Bush and Barack Obama before going with a third-party candidate in 2016. On Tuesday, she wants to hear whether Biden can hold his own against Trump’s insults.  “His age is concerning,” she said. “If you look at pictures of presidents after their term, they look older, stressed, harried.”  Biden’s age and acuity — he would be the oldest president in U.S. history, three years older than Trump — and Trump’s lack of an agenda or principles has Paul Jass stuck in a too familiar place: undecided, with the debates standing as his primary hope for finding clarity.  Jass, a chemist who lives near Milwaukee, defines himself as a social liberal, especially on climate and natural resources issues, and fiscal conservative who used to be comfortable in the Republican Party. But not in recent years: In 2016, he voted for Gary Johnson, the ex-governor of New Mexico who served as a Republican but made his White House run as a Libertarian. Before that, he voted for Republican John McCain in 2008 and Democrat Obama in 2012.  In the debate, Jass wants to hear a science-based plan for restraining spread of the virus and a coherent approach to restarting the economy. He’s not holding his breath.  Jass has been perplexed by Trump’s refusal to take the advice of scientists. “He tried to put too much of a false front on to make the virus situation not look so bad,” he said. “He thinks he knows it all. As a person, I really don’t like him. And he’s not a Republican at all.”  But Trump has done some things Jass likes, including closing tax loopholes, evening the playing field for U.S. manufacturers, and brokering peace between Israel and some of its Arab neighbors.  Biden’s campaign has left Jass flat so far. “His message is scattered for me other than ‘I don’t like Trump,’ ” he said. “I want to hear a clear philosophy of government. But I really think Biden’s going to win and win handily.”  While many undecideds eagerly await the debates as a way to clarify their choice, others hold little hope that the TV spectacles will help — or that their vote will do any good.  Scott Williams has never voted before but is already somewhat apathetic about his first presidential election.  “I can’t blink without something telling me I need to go register to vote,” said Williams, 21, a junior at Concordia University in St. Paul, Minn. “They’re really, really hellbent on getting youth to vote right now.”  Williams plans to watch the debate with his girlfriend. He’s curious about how Trump and Biden will interact with one another. And after losing his restaurant job at the start of the pandemic and then finding part-time work at another eatery, he’s especially interested in hearing how the candidates would curb the coronavirus “so we don’t have to worry or practice social distancing.”  But he’s underwhelmed by both candidates. He sees Trump as simply unqualified to serve. And Biden is “another old guy.” The Undecideds: Sure, Biden and Trump are very different. But maybe neither is right for the job.And he claimed — falsely — that the deadly coronavirus, which has so far killed more than 200,000 Americans, “affects virtually nobody” and that states should reopen their schools.  In eight rallies over nine days, the president has offered a closing argument to voters that is both dark and outlandish, marked by offensive rhetoric laden with grievance.  Campaign advisers and allies say Trump has been agitating to get back out on the campaign trail in defiance of the coronavirus pandemic, resuming the rallies that energize his base and became a symbol of his underdog victory in 2016. The president believes that he alone, unfiltered, and speaking directly to voters, helped lift his campaign four years ago and that it will be key to his reelection as well.  Trump is running for a second term the only way he seems to know how: Off-script, with little to no discipline, spewing controversy and viscera from the stage. Yet if his words are divisive and shocking, they are also familiar — and may have lost some of their ability to persuade voters.  “If he’s doing his typical base-rallying rhetoric, it doesn’t have an impact because it has already fully polarized everybody over these past four years,” said Amy Walter, national editor for the Cook Political Report.    An ABC town hall with Trump earlier this month trailed behind CBS’s “Big Brother” and NBC’s “America’s Got Talent” in the ratings. The president’s acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention last month also lost in the ratings to Biden’s acceptance speech the week prior, as well as compared with his own 2016 convention speech.  A new Washington Post-ABC News poll released Sunday, meanwhile, showed the race largely unchanged since before the conventions, with Biden leading Trump by 10 points among likely voters, 54 percent to 44 percent, with the Democrat leading the incumbent by 30 points among women and with 58 percent disapproving of his handling of the coronavirus.  “This is Trump being Trump,” said Frank Sesno, a professor at George Washington University’s School of Media & Public Affairs and a former Washington bureau chief at CNN. “This is Trump unfettered and unbound. There are no advisers around him who are warning him of the dangers of an exclusionary message.”  Still, Sesno added, Trump’s relatively steady poll numbers reflect “remarkable stability for such an unstable time and presidency.”  “He feeds red meat to his audience and his audience expects red meat,” Sesno said. “The vegetarians know this is the place for red meat and they go elsewhere.”    At his recent rallies, Trump has repeatedly downplayed the coronavirus, claiming, as he did two Fridays ago in Bemidji, Minn., that “we’re rounding the turn on covid” and that his administration’s response has been “phenomenal.”  Last Monday in Dayton, Ohio, Trump riffed that his team has done “such a good job except in terms of public relations” when it comes to the pandemic, and later that evening, several hours north in Swanton, Ohio, Trump felt emboldened enough to claim that the virus “affects virtually nobody,” and crowed, “Open your schools! Everybody open your schools!”  By Tuesday, in Moon Township, Pa., Trump even turned the deadly pandemic into a joke — that it sounds like “a beautiful villa.”  “Corona sounds like a place in Italy, a beautiful place — it’s corona,” he said. “No, it’s the China virus.”    At the rally in Minnesota — which is more than 83 percent white, according to the U.S. Census Bureau — the president expounded on the greatness of the state, crediting its citizens’ high-quality genetic makeup.  “You have good genes, you know that, right?” Trump said. “You have good genes. A lot of it’s about the genes, isn’t it? Don’t you believe that? The racehorse theory — do you think we’re so different? You have good genes in Minnesota.”    And Trump painted a dystopian vision of a nation under a Biden presidency, warning in Bemidji that the state would be turned “into a refugee camp” and “overrun and destroyed if Biden and the racial left win.”  The next evening, in Fayetteville, N.C, Trump said with no evidence that Biden “wants to indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies” — a claim he repeated several times in the following days. In Ohio, he promised that Biden would “destroy suburbia,” adding that the former vice president would put Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), who is Black, in charge of housing programs.  Trump’s whole gimmick, said Al Cárdenas, the former chairman of the Republican Party of Florida, is fear.  “There’s an authoritarian move in the country, and a lot of the folks who support him seem to have bought in on this authoritarian stuff, and it’s driven nationally by fear and fear of cultural change,” Cárdenas said. “Fear is a very good tool leading to authoritarian approval, and the Trump campaign is playing this authoritarian card well.”  Though the campaign initially curtailed Trump’s rally schedule — in part because of an embarrassing June rally in Tulsa, where a smaller-than-advertised crowd materialized — in recent weeks it has quietly resumed a more traditional schedule, albeit with mostly outdoor events.  Walter said that Trump’s freewheeling and fiery onstage performances seem driven, in part, by his craving for the adulation and energy he gleans from massive rallies.  “He seemed to just so desperately miss the crowd piece, that anytime he’s in front of a crowd, he just goes back into that crowd mode,” she said. “If this had been a normal year, where this was rally 7,000 instead of rally seven, I wonder if things would be a little different.”    Advisers say the campaign acquiesced to the president’s demand to get back out on the road, believing that rallies are a critical part of his success.  “You can’t get good Trump — the most charismatic, magnetic personality perhaps in the history of electoral politics — without the bad Trump,” said one campaign adviser, speaking on the condition of anonymity to share a candid assessment of the president. “The same qualities that make him this magnetic figure — the unpredictability, the comedy, the audacity — manifest themselves in good and bad ways, and if he didn’t do that, he probably wouldn’t be the same magnetic guy he is.”  Aides and allies say they have been exasperated by some of Trump’s recent rhetoric and believe he loses support when he is divisive and launches personal attacks. But they also say that much of what is labeled as problematic is simply overblown by the media and the Washington political class.  “His base loves him, and again, I do not think the American electorate — be it a portion of his base or undecided parts of the electorate — are noodling over a particular line of his speech,” said Brian O. Walsh, president of America First, a pro-Trump super PAC. “It’s been four years of noise, and we need to take that into context. Every day is a new headline saying this is a travesty or this is the end of the republic, and Americans are street smart and they get it.”  On Thursday, at a rally in Jacksonville, Fla., the president recycled some of his controversial assaults from earlier in the week, attacking Omar and mocking NBC’s Ali Velshi, who was hit by a rubber bullet while covering protests in Minneapolis.  Trump mispronounced Omar’s first name before claiming he was going to win in her home state because “they’re not too fond of her in Minnesota.”  “She has a total disrespect for our country and I think she has hatred for our country,” he said.  Previously, in Minnesota and Pennsylvania, Trump had also attacked Omar by talking about the U.S. citizen as a foreigner. “She’s telling us how to run our country,” Trump said Tuesday night in Moon Township. “How did you do where you came from? How is your country doing?”  Velshi, too, was a repeat target of Trump’s scorn, as the president regaled his crowds with a description of “that idiot reporter” getting injured covering the protests and describing it as “the most beautiful thing” and a stellar example of “law and order.”  “Now he got hit on the knee with a canister of tear gas,” Trump said Thursday. “They say it hurts, and that’s only going 52 miles an hour. A bullet goes about 2,000 miles an hour.”  Trump, who has spent months suggesting that Biden has cognitive problems, has now begun floating baseless claims that the former vice president is taking performance-enhancing drugs. “They gave him a big fat shot in the ass and he comes out and for two hours he’s better than ever before,” Trump said, apparently alluding to his concern that Biden may turn in a strong performance when the men face off Tuesday in the first presidential debate.  “Now we’re going to ask for a drug test, we are,” he said. “I’d like to have a drug test for both of us. I’ll take it, he’ll take it.”  In addition to railing against — again, without evidence — “fake ballots” from the rally stage, Trump also prompted widespread alarm this past week when he refused to commit to a peaceful transfer of power should he lose in November, and preemptively threw doubt on the result of any election in which he does not prevail.  “We want to make sure the election is honest, and I’m not sure that it can be,” the president said.  TJ Ducklo, a Biden campaign spokesman, said the campaign will continue pressing its own message about Trump’s bungled leadership.  “As horrible and offensive as many of his rallies are, he’s playing only to his base, not getting any meaningful media coverage, and doing nothing to appeal to the swing voters he needs to win. The musings of the hateful and erratic resident of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue will not distract our campaign from talking about the issues that impact people’s lives — Trump’s failure to protect American lives during covid, his failure to get the economy back on track, and his failure to lead on racial justice.”  Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh, meanwhile, defended the president’s behavior, describing him as a counterpuncher when attacked.    “President Trump gives wide-ranging remarks at his campaign events, promoting his administration’s accomplishments and warning against the leftist agenda being carried by Joe Biden,” Murtaugh said, in an email statement. “Democrats and the media have spent every day of his presidency attacking him, undermining him, and trying to defeat him, and the President is one who likes to fight back.”  Sesno said the ultimate impact of Trump’s nontraditional closing argument still remains to be seen.  “We say Trump has not paid a price for any of his extreme rhetoric, and in one way that’s correct,” Sesno said. “His base has held and he’s overtaken the party. But in another way he’s paid a terrible price — he’s been impeached, he has low approval ratings, he’s an underdog according to the polls.” Trump brings divisiveness and invective back to the rally stage