During the first eight months of this year, nearly 8,000 Tunisians crossed the Mediterranean to Italy, six times as many as last year, according to the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, and Tunisians are now by far the largest nationality arriving in Italy. An average of two migrant boats left the coastal town of Zarzis every evening during the summer bound for the Italian island of Lampedusa, local fishermen said.  A 23-year-old house painter from Zarzis said he set out last month with eight other men and five boys, including his younger brother, on a 25-hour voyage across an “agitated” sea. When they arrived in Lampedusa, the “joy was indescribable,” he said in an interview conducted via Facebook.  The young man, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid attracting more attention from Italian authorities, spent a month in offshore detention before being released. Many of his fellow migrants, however, are likely to be deported. Regular deportation flights from Italy to Tunisia resumed last month.  Overall, sea arrivals in Italy this year of all nationalities — about 20,000 people as of last month — are far fewer than the hundreds of thousands recorded in 2016 and 2017, the United Nations says. Still, experts say the surge in Tunisian migrants is likely a harbinger of a new wave, as the coronavirus takes a mounting toll on livelihoods in developing countries.  “In the medium term, I think it’s safe to assume that there’s going to be more pressure on the migratory front to Europe,” said Olivia Sundberg Diez, a policy analyst at the European Policy Centre, a think tank in Brussels.  Aymen Hussein, 25, who works in a Zarzis restaurant, said bad weather in recent days has been the only thing preventing him from trying to make the crossing. His restaurant had closed during the lockdown, and when it reopened, his low wages were not enough to keep up with rising food prices, and he’s struggling to make ends meet, he said.  Khouildi Saif, 25, a fisherman in Zarzis, said his peers face a grim choice: “I’ll either die in my country or I’ll die in the sea.” These days, he said, many prefer to risk the sea.  Obtaining visas to Europe is costly and difficult for most Tunisians. For years, they have resorted to dangerous Mediterranean crossings known across North Africa as the “harraga,” or “burning,” as migrants “burn” borders in search of a better life in Europe.  Amid unprecedented border closures in the spring, due to public health restrictions, irregular migration to Europe virtually ground to a halt. But after the restrictions lifted, more than 4,000 Tunisians crossed to Italy in July alone, the United Nations says. Tunisians have made up about two-fifths of all sea arrivals this year, a proportion that migration experts say is unusually large.  The influx has caused alarm in southern Italy and raised diplomatic tensions between Italy and Tunisia. Some Italians on the far right have spread fears that migrants are bringing the coronavirus to the country, despite Italian officials’ statements that irregular migrants account for a small percentage of imported cases.  When cases were first reported in Tunisia in March, authorities reacted swiftly, closing external borders and most businesses, imposing a strict curfew and barring travel between regions. The measures paid off. By the time its borders reopened in June, Tunisia had recorded only 1,064 cases and 50 deaths.  But the restrictions further damaged an economy already afflicted by high unemployment, declining purchasing power and stark inequalities. Most Tunisians are unable to work from home and so were hit especially hard.  “These full-on lockdowns have very different effects in developing countries than they do in developed countries, where working from home is easier and more people are formally employed,” said Max Gallien, a research fellow in political economy at the University of Sussex.  Tourism, vital to the country’s economy, has dried up, with tourism revenue falling 61 percent by August, according to statistics from the Central Bank of Tunisia. At this time last year, French and Russian beachgoers filled the tables of Zarzis, said ­Sabrine Kilani, who tends bar at the Restaurant Le Dauphin. Eyeing a room of empty seats in the middle of a recent lunch hour, she described this tourist season as “null.”  As a result of the coronavirus, the country’s economy is expected to contract by 4.3 percent in 2020, according to International Monetary Fund projections, representing the largest recession since Tunisia gained independence from France in 1956.  Political instability, meanwhile, has exacerbated the crisis. Prime Minister Elyes Fakhfakh resigned amid corruption allegations in July, leaving Tunisia without a government at a critical time and further denting the public’s confidence.  Situated on Tunisia’s southeastern coast and far from coast guard radars, Zarzis has long been on the front lines of irregular migration to Europe. Fishermen here take pride in having saved hundreds of migrants who set sail from Libya and were shipwrecked off Tunisia’s coast.  UNHCR has reported more than 300 people dead or missing in the central Mediterranean this year. Armed with higher-quality GPS devices and knowledge of the seas, Tunisians often fare better than migrants leaving from nearby Libya. Still, Romdhane Ben Amor, communications officer for the Tunisian Forum for Economic and Social Rights, estimated that dozens have disappeared at sea this year.  Slah Din Mcharek, president of the Zarzis fishermen’s association, said every boat leaving Zarzis for Italy these days carries one or two young fishermen. “The fishermen, we saved people,” he said. “Now, we make the ‘harraga.’ ”  The young house painter, recently released from detention in Italy, said his life plans had not initially included the hazardous, illegal trip to Europe. After he received his high school diploma, a university in Paris promised him a spot in 2016, he said. But his visa applications were rejected twice.  He wound up painting houses in Zarzis, saving enough to secure a spot on a harraga boat in 2019. The Tunisian coast guard foiled that first attempt. When the pandemic hit and painting houses became impossible, the painter said he felt he had no choice but to try again, as soon as possible. He took out a loan and his mother sold a piece of gold to fund his passage.  When he and his fellow travelers first reached Lampedusa, they spent 12 days in a reception center filled with migrants of various nationalities, including women and young children. He was then placed in quarantine on a large boat off the Sicilian coast.  Most Tunisians who make the journey to Italy, including the Zarzis painter, hope to end up in France. But under the European Union asylum system, the country where a migrant disembarks is responsible for processing their asylum application or return.  On Wednesday, the E.U. proposed revamping its system to speed up deportations and allow for asylum seekers to be more evenly distributed across European countries.  Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio has said Italy considers Tunisia to be a safe country and will return all Tunisians who enter irregularly. In late July, Di Maio threatened to withhold development aid to Tunisia until authorities agreed on a plan to stem the outflow. Italian and European authorities traveled to Tunis in August to discuss the issue with Tunisian President Kais Saied.  Italy has promised Tunisia $13 million for border-control measures. The E.U., meanwhile, will extend an existing border-management program with Tunisia by 20 months and $11.8 million, Hichem Dhahri, a spokesman for the E.U. delegation to Tunisia, confirmed.  Saied has called a security-oriented approach to migration insufficient and emphasized that Tunisia must generate jobs and development. Economic fallout from coronavirus leads to surge in Tunisians leaving for EuropeVenezuela’s once powerful oil industry is literally falling apart, with years of mismanagement, corruption, falling prices and a U.S. embargo imposed last year bringing aging infrastructure to the brink of collapse. As the government scrambles to repair and restart its fuel-processing capacity, analysts are warning that ruptured pipelines, rusting tankers and rickety refineries are contributing to a mounting ecological disaster in this failing socialist state.  Oil workers say the gushing crude soiling the coast of Falcón state this month came from a cracked underwater pipeline linked to attempts to restart fuel production at the aging Cardón refinery. Not far from the oil slick, fishermen say, is a jetting geyser of natural gas from a second broken pipeline.  “The gas leak looks like a boiling pot about to explode,” González said.  The leaks are the latest in a spate of oil industry troubles that have alarmed environmentalists here. They include a recent oil spill that has jeopardized corals and rare marine life off sensitive Morrocoy National Park, and a rusting vessel in the Gulf of Paria that observers call a ticking ecological time bomb. Analysts see a growing risk of more and larger spills in a country that has already suffered years of damage from broken wells and abandoned oil fields.  “Our fear is that as they try to fix and restart these refineries and oil centers, we’re only going to see more of this,” said Cristina Burelli, international liaison for SOSOrinoco, a nonprofit focused on environmental damage in Venezuela. “More underground oil pipelines are blowing up. The whole system is corroded and falling apart.”  A rash of gold mining — much of it illegal — has contributed to a surge of pollutants in the Venezuelan interior, endangering the important ecosystem at Canaima National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage site. And illicit logging has jeopardized rainforest. But in this OPEC nation that sits on the world’s largest proven oil reserves, the biggest driver of environmental damage is the crumbling energy sector.  Particularly in recent years, a lack of spare parts, a brain drain of technicians and widespread corruption have crippled oil production and fuel refineries, making environmental accidents more common. Between 2010 and 2016, the state oil giant PDVSA was responsible for more than 46,000 spills of crude and other pollutants, according to the Caracas-based human rights group Provea.  In the Connecticut-size Lake Maracaibo, thousands of wells now stand broken and useless, with raw crude and natural gas bubbling visibly to the surface. In 2016, the last year data was available, state engineers estimated that tens of thousands of gallons of oil were seeping into the lake each month.  The U.S. embargo on Venezuelan oil has deepened the industry’s woes. The country lacks the capacity to process much of its sludgy product. When it sent crude to the United States, it got back refined gasoline. The end of that system has worsened severe fuel shortages. The need to store extra crude that Venezuela cannot sell under the embargo, as well as the government’s attempts to revamp and restart old refineries to increase domestic fuel production, appears to be driving the recent spills, analysts and oil workers say.  The country’s diplomatic isolation has exacerbated the problem. The United States and more than 50 other countries consider President Nicolás Maduro a usurper; they recognize National Assembly President Juan Guaidó as the country’s rightful leader.  Unlike Mauritius, which recently called for international aid after a Japanese tanker spilled more than 1,000 tons of oil off its pristine coast, the Venezuelan government has few friends to turn to — and so has largely downplayed the spills.  “It breaks my heart,” said Julia Alvarez, a marine biologist here. “This is an ecological crime.”  Analysts began monitoring the first of the recent spills in August.  Eduardo Klein, director of the Remote Sensors Laboratory in the department of environmental studies at Simón Bolívar University, used satellite images to document a massive oil slick washing up on the beaches of Morrocoy National Park, a sensitive ecosystem of corals, sponges and sea turtles on the Caribbean coast. The images, he said, suggested the spill originated at a refinery in Carabobo state.  “It can be seen without a doubt that there is a very large stain in front of El Palito refinery,” he said. “There is no way this stain had any other origin.”  Klein estimated the spill at 26,000 barrels of oil over 135 square miles, the largest in the area in at least 20 years.  According to local news reports, El Palito refinery suffered a failure at the end of July, when workers tried to reactivate it in an effort to refine fuel. Ivan Feites, an oil union board member, said the facility’s compressor pumps, turbines and pipes remain severely damaged.  “That’s what causes spills every time they try to restart the refinery,” Feites said. “The refinery doesn’t work and can’t produce fuel. It’s like a piece of cardboard that easily breaks.”  The Venezuelan government has not acknowledged the origin of the spill, but said in a statement last month that Morrocoy’s animal and plant life had not been damaged. The National Assembly has opened an investigation; opposition officials have suggested that the refinery’s waste pit might have overflowed because of heavy rains and a lack of maintenance.  The Venezuelan government did not respond to a request for comment.  On the other side of the country, analysts and oil workers are growing increasingly concerned about the FSO Nabarima, a rusting vessel laden with 1.3 million barrels of crude that is taking on water in the Gulf of Paria. They fear the floating storage and offloading unit is at risk of sinking and creating a major environmental disaster in the Caribbean Sea.  Eudis Girot, head of the anti-government Unitary Federation of Petroleum Workers of Venezuela, posted photos on social media showing what he described as the ship’s already flooded engine room. In a video posted to social media, he begged Maduro to intervene.  “Take a helicopter,” he said. “Go out there. Do your own inspection.”  PDVSA confirmed the most recent oil spill, near its Cardón refinery. The oil giant said this month that the leak occurred in an underwater pipeline and cleanup was underway.  González, who grew up fishing with his uncle on the coast of Falcón, said he and other fisherman worry the spill will ruin their livelihoods. Environmentalists, meanwhile, say it could affect populations of dolphins, crocodiles, seabirds and green turtles.  “We have never seen a spill like this,” said González. “For years, no one has come to do maintenance on the refineries. Now it turns out that they are polluting everything with oil, and nobody seems to care.” Venezuela's broken oil industry is spewing crude into the Caribbean Sea