Good morning, and welcome to the “This is America” newsletter centered on race, identity and how they shape our lives. I’m Jessica Flores, a breaking news fellow at USA TODAY.  Born in Los Angeles, California, I am the daughter of two Salvadoran immigrants. Like many children of immigrants, I sometimes struggle with being ni de aquí, ni de allá – neither from here nor from there.  In honor of Hispanic Heritage Month, here's what I’ve learned about my own Latin American heritage.  But first: Race and justice news we're watching  Every week, check here for important stories of the past week, from USA TODAY and other news sources.  A judge has delayed the release of Breonna Taylor grand jury recordings to protect witnesses, lawyers say.  'A Breonna Taylor circumstance': Black college student says police drew fire guns on her after roommates filed a false report  What does 'BIPOC' mean? Should we eliminate the term 'POC'? NPR's Code Switch looks at why some people identify with these terms and why some don't.  Officials are investigating a whistleblower complaint alleging that women detained by U.S. Customs and Immigration Enforcement underwent unnecessary gynecological surgeries and hysterectomies without their consent.  The federal appeal court ruling on Sept. 14 granting the Trump administration the authority to end the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program, which has allowed about 300,000 people from countries affected by natural disasters and war to legally stay in the U.S. It’s a policy that affects thousands of families, including one of my best friends and her family. She shares her experience in this op-ed as a recipient of TPS in the U.S.  ––  Learning about my Salvadoran heritage has been a beautiful, yet painful discovery. As a child, I would travel every year to El Salvador to visit family and explore the country’s beautiful sites. But I did not know much about my parents’ migration story to the U.S.  They only shared certain memories of their past. I think sharing, for them, means reliving a traumatic experience. That has left me putting together the pieces and learning about El Salvador’s history on my own.  My father often shares with me how my grandmother and aunts are doing in El Salvador after speaking with them on the phone. In one of those conversations last year, I began to ask him about his childhood and what he remembers. I want to know more about your childhood there, I said.  Jessica Flores spoke about her Salvadoran roots on the 5 Things podcast. Listen below.  The conversation always starts off pure. He begins telling me about playing with a caripucho, a cup-and-ball toy, as a child. The mangos verdes con alguashte, Salvadoran green mangos with pepita seasoning generously drizzled over them, he would eat. And how his father was a calm and loving man who never yelled at his kids.  My father had only once mentioned about his father’s killing in the brutal Salvadoran civil war. A war that was backed by the U.S. government and claimed the lives of over 75,000. It never went beyond “The Salvadoran government killed my father.” Last year, I asked him directly.  The details are now clearer and haunting.  My father was nine years old when the war began in 1980. It was a war between the U.S.-backed Salvadoran military government and the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN) guerillas.  His family were in their home when the Salvadoran military knocked on their door, he said. His mother quickly rushed the kids to hide under their beds. Military officials went looking for his father, whose family was helping the FMLN, my father confirmed.  At this moment, my father’s eyes are filled with tears. He remembers the look in his father’s face as he’s escorted out of the house. Seconds later, he hears the gunshots.  “They killed my father,” he told me with tears rolling down his face.  I cried with him, too. That moment I realized the trauma that he, and many other Salvadorans who fled the country because of the war, holds.  'Mi mamá me cortó mis alas'  My mother, on the other hand, left El Salvador at 16 years old because of poverty and the lack of opportunity of an education.  Growing up she’d tell me and my sister that we’d have to work twice as hard and go to college if we want to be successful in the U.S.  I am the first person in my family to graduate with my master's degree. Graduating from a school like the University of Southern California was one of my mother’s proudest moments.  Every now and then, my mother shares her memories of being in school. She stopped going to school by 8th grade to help her mother. All seven of her sisters had to drop out of school to work. But she loved learning and going to school more than anyone in the family, she says.  “Mi mamá me cortó mis alas,” she said. It was like her mother cut her wings.  Because of this sacrifice, my mother has encouraged and supported my educational and professional career.  In honor of my family and heritage, it's important for me to more about the intersection of my Salvadoran and American identity. Like the ways in which American policies have affected Salvadorans in the U.S. and in El Salvador.  My parent’s struggles and beautiful memories of El Salvador and in the U.S. show me how resilient they are. Latinx stories, and especially Central Americans, are often overlooked in films and the book publishing industry. This is why I cherish and respect my parent’s stories. They are part of what has shaped my identity. Through my journalism, I want to help people share their stories.  The histories of Black, Latinx, Asian, Indigenous and other people of color are often not taught in detail in American schools. Instead, we rely on our families’ memories, books and documentaries.  --  Next week:Mabinty Quarshie reflects on how voter suppression impacts communities of color.  This is America is a weekly take on current events from a rotating panel of USA TODAY journalists with diverse backgrounds and viewpoints. If you’re seeing this newsletter online or someone forwarded it to you, you can sign up here. If you have feedback for us, we'd love for you to drop it here. Celebrating one journalist's Salvadoran roots