Trump: Biden against 'oil, guns and God' Campaigning in Pittsburgh, Pa., President Donald Trump portrayed Democratic nominee Joe Biden as an opponent of "oil, guns and God," and said the election "is a matter of economic survival for Pennsylvania." AP  President Donald Trump says he's not a politician. As proof, the real estate developer points to the promises he made both on the 2016 campaign and early in his term – and, he says, delivered.  "Unlike so many who came before me, I keep my promises," Trump said during his State of the Union speech this year.  So what were his major promises?  The appointment of conservative justices to federal courts. Broad tax cuts. Building a border wall on the southern border and making Mexico pay for it. Massive deregulation. Replacing Obamacare with a health coverage plan that's “far less expensive and far better.” Bringing back manufacturing. Reinvigorating fading industries, such as coal and steel. Renegotiating trade deals in a way that helps the U.S. Moving the Israeli embassy to Jerusalem. Curbing immigration. Reducing the national debt. Withdrawing from the Paris climate accord.  Build the wall? Travel ban? Tax cuts?: After Trump's State of the Union, here's where he stands on promises  Michigan represented one of President Donald Trump’s closest victories in 2016. And one of his most important. The Great Lakes State again is expected to be a key battleground this time around (Sept. 18) AP  The USA TODAY Network looked at a number of the promises – large and small, national and exceedingly local – that Trump made on the campaign trail four years ago and early in his term, to measure his success.  Trump has delivered on a number of them, including tax cuts, conservative judges, de-regulation, the climate accord and the Israeli embassy to name a few. Some have been partly accomplished, such as trade deals, the border wall and defeating ISIS. Other pledges have yet to be realized, such as bringing back coal and steel and replacing the Affordable Care Act. And some have gone in the wrong direction, such as reducing the national debt and bringing back manufacturing.  Larry Sabato, director of Center for Politics at the University of Virginia, said the president "has certainly fulfilled some promises," especially the appointment of conservative judges that have won him the continued admiration of white evangelicals who are expected to again support him in overwhelming numbers.  But the president also tends to exaggerate his record of delivering, Sabato said.  "If you listen to Trump, he’s fulfilled all promises and has done so perfectly," he wrote in an email to USA TODAY. "In other words, he can’t be relied on to tell the truth and only people who haven’t paid attention over the past four years or are members of his worshipful base would believe otherwise."  But, "how’s that border wall paid for by Mexico coming?" he asked, a reference to one campaign pledge Trump has not yet made good on. Donald Trump made many promises in 2016 and early in his term. Which has he kept and what is he still working on?