Editors  USA TODAY  Trump vs. Biden: Vicious matchup anticipated in first presidential debate  President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden debate face-to-face for the first time of the 2020 campaign Tuesday in Cleveland. The 90-minute contest will be stripped of typical debate standards: No opening statements, or handshake due to coronavirus concerns. A little over a month from Election Day, Trump will seek to close his nearly 7-point deficit in national polls while Biden will present his case for why he's a better alternative, strategists and historians say. Join USA TODAY's nationwide team of journalists to watch the debate as we live fact-check and add context to important issues such as COVID-19, immigration, climate, election security and SCOTUS.  Briefing books? Mock debates? How Trump and Biden are prepping for their first face-off in Cleveland  How Trump and Biden are prepping for their first face-off in Cleveland How to watch the first presidential debate between Joe Biden and Donald Trump  the first presidential debate between Joe Biden and Donald Trump Not tuning in, but still want to stay in the know? Let us text you the biggest moments by signing up for USA TODAY's election texting!  Prefer to listen? Check out the 5 things podcast below and subscribe for free on Apple Podcasts:  Negotiations continue after House introduced coronavirus stimulus bill  Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin will speak Tuesday morning after House Democrats unveiled a $2.2 trillion COVID-19 relief package. The bill provides another round of $1,200 stimulus checks, reauthorizes the small business lending program, brings back the $600 federal boost to the unemployment benefit through January, and provides assistance for the airline industry. The House could act on the bill as soon as this week. Although the Senate is unlikely to act on the legislation, it represents a negotiating point over $1 trillion lower than Democrats' previous proposal.  The battle in Congress to replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg is dashing hopes for a COVID-19 stimulus package  Major League Baseball playoffs begin  Following a truncated 60-game regular season, the Major League Baseball playoffs begin Tuesday with the largest field in history. The expanded 16-team field is double the usual eight teams and promises to be just as strange as the shortened regular season. The opening wild-card series will be played at the home fields of the higher seeds. The divisional round, league championship series and World Series will then be played at bubble locations in Texas and California. The Los Angeles Dodgers had the league's best regular-season record and are the top seed in the National League. The Tampa Bay Rays are the top seed in the American League.  MLB's expanded playoff field is set: A quick look at all 8 wild-card series matchups  Mariah Carey reveals true vulnerability in new memoir  Award-winning music icon Mariah Carey tells the unfiltered story of her life in her memoir, "The Meaning of Mariah Carey," out Tuesday. She writes stories about everything: her childhood; her time in the music business; her work in the Oscar-winning film "Precious" as well as her marriages and children. "Carey weaves chapters with her lyrics that speak to what was happening in her life at that time," writes USA TODAY's David Oliver. In addition, Carey's next album, "The Rarities," arrives Oct. 2. In search of something good to read? USA TODAY's Barbara VanDenburgh scopes out the shelves for this week’s hottest new book releases.  Perk up, coffee fans: It’s National Coffee Day  Tuesday is National Coffee Day, the ultimate day to get – and stay – caffeinated for little or no cost. Restaurants, convenience stores and brands alike are toasting the made-up holiday by giving away free coffee and serving up discounted brew. Always check with your closest location as offers and participation can vary, but here are some discounts you can snag: Starbucks is giving Rewards members a way to get a free coffee with its National Coffee Day 2020 deal. You can get a free medium hot or iced coffee with any purchase at Dunkin'. And at Krispy Kreme, everyone can get a free brewed coffee, no purchase necessary. Here's where else to get free cups. Trump vs. Biden, coronavirus stimulus bill, MLB playoffs: 5 things to know Tuesday