Gena Thomas  Opinion contributor  My former foster daughter was part of the pilot program of family separation. As an evangelical Christian who saw firsthand what family separation does to families, my pro-life vote is going to Joe Biden.  Rhetoric concerning the difference between anti-abortion and pro-life might seem like linguistic superficiality. It isn’t. Many of my fellow Christians claim that Trump is the pro-life choice, but pro-life also involves being pro-family. With approximately 5,500 children forcibly separated at our southern border and another 50,000 asylum seekers waiting for their cases to process, it’s clear this administration is not pro-family, unless perhaps that family is white and lives in the suburbs.  As of May 2020, the Remain in Mexico policy (formally known as the Migrant Protection Protocol) had 1,114 cases of kidnapping, murder, rape, torture, and violent assault, according to a report by the advocacy organization Human Rights First. Not only is this not pro-life, it is actively risking people’s lives.  Abandoned by the system  For about one year, from the summer of 2017 through June 2018 our government was purposely and forcibly separating children from their parents when they arrived at the border as a deterrent to keep immigrants and asylum seekers out. The president of the American Academy of Pediatrics called this “nothing less than government-sanctioned child abuse.” And it was.  Election 2020:Biden looks solid, but I won't stop worrying until Trump loses. And maybe not even then.  My former foster daughter was 5 years old when she crossed the border with her mother and stepdad in 2017. The two were immediately separated even though his name was on her birth certificate. She was then placed with his sister in a home in North Carolina. After neglect in that home, she moved from the jurisdiction of the Office of Refugee Resettlement into my county’s Department of Health and Human Services foster care. She came to live with me and my family in February 2018.  The trauma she went through was evident in the attempts to run away, temper tantrums, and fear of certain adults. After a month, she learned to trust us and trust our love not only for her, but also for her mother and brothers. Foster care social workers had made contact with her mother two weeks after she came into our home. Video calls home to Honduras lasted for hours every week through which we entered each other’s homes, sat in church services, met each other’s friends, laughed and cried together. We moved quickly from acquaintances to friends to family.  Families belong together  The most telling difference between being anti-abortion and pro-life is the movement from individuality to community. To be truly pro-life, we must also be pro-family, not just pro-child. So often, pro-life advocates tout only the needs of the child — I was once that kind of advocate. But foster care changed me. Foster care showed me that if I only care about the child, I am not pro-life. If I only care about the child, I am pro-possession.  Dr. Ben Carson:I knew Donald Trump before politics. I urge America to reelect my friend.  The best option for any child is to live with their biological parents, and reunification is always the hoped-for goal of foster care. In some cases, due to neglect or abuse, that is not possible; I am not suggesting reunification should be done in all circumstances. But families belong together, whether they are facing the challenges of foster care or are separated by detention centers or incarceration. Families belong together.  Unfortunately, too many Christians put children on a pedestal and the needs of biological parents on a rung below. It’s dehumanizing. Being authentically pro-life requires one to see a child connected — not separated — from his or her family and community.  Four months after coming into our home, with the help of state social workers and the Honduran consulate, my husband and I traveled to Honduras with my foster daughter, and saw her reunited with her mother and brothers. To my knowledge, her stepdad had not been heard from after being deported by Customs and Border Patrol.  Birth and reunification should not be pitted against each other in Christian circles. Hierarchical views of which lives are worthy causes stems from white supremacy, not Christ. Being pro-family — for birth and for reunification and for family strengthening — is a vision for God’s kingdom come. Voting for a practicing Catholic Democrat does not hinder that vision — in fact, in the case of the 2020 election, I think it enhances it.  Gena Thomas is the author of "Separated by the Border: A Birth Mother, a Foster Mother, and a Migrant Child's 3,000-Mile Journey." Follow her on Twitter: @genaLRthomas 'Remain in Mexico' policy: My foster daughter was separated from her family at the border