Corrections and Clarifications: A previous version of this story had incorrect information about the incoming New Mexico delegation to the House. Hawaii was the first state to elect an all women-of-color delegation in 1990.  SANTA FE, N.M. — New Mexico has elected all women of color to the U.S. House of Representatives, for the first time in the state's history.  Early Wednesday, the state confirmed victories for incumbent Rep. Deb Haaland, Yvette Herrell and Teresa Leger Fernandez in New Mexico's three congressional districts.  The first U.S. state to have an all women of color House delegation was Hawaii in 1990, when Rep. Patsy Mink (D-Hawaii) and Rep. Pat Saiki (R-Hawaii) took office.  "Tonight the people of New Mexico have chosen hope over fear, love over hate, community over division," Haaland wrote on Twitter Tuesday. "Tonight I recommit to fighting for legislation that will guide our nation forward in the areas of climate change, education, racial equality, healthcare and economic justice."  Haaland, who is an enrolled citizen of the Pueblo of Laguna and identifies as a 35th generation New Mexican, made history in 2018 when she became one of the first Native American congresswomen. The Democrat, who has been vocal on issues such as Indigenous peoples' rights and environmental justice, won reelection in the state's 1st Congressional District against Republican challenger Michelle Garcia Holmes.  Republican Herrell, who is a member of the Cherokee nation and former state representative in New Mexico's House, won her challenge against incumbent Democratic Rep. Xochitl Torres Small in the 2nd Congressional District.  Herrell campaigned on being New Mexico's conservative voice in Congress and has received support from President Donald Trump, among other big-name Republicans.  "It’s the honor of my life to be elected to serve #NM02," Herrell wrote on Twitter when announcing her win. "My commitment to each citizen of our district is that I will serve each of them with integrity as we work together to rebuild our economy and protect the values that make America great!"  Finally, in the state's 3rd Congressional District, Democrat Leger Fernandez beat Republican Alexis Johnson — becoming the first woman and Latina to ever represent northern New Mexico in Congress. Leger Fernandez, who was born and raised in New Mexico, has decades of experience as an attorney, working specifically as an advocate for the rights of tribes, women, immigrants and Hispanic communities. She will replace Democratic Rep. Ben Ray Luján, who won the state's open U.S. Senate seat.  "The people of New Mexico have chosen to protect what we love – our democracy, our planet, our families and communities, our health care and our future," Leger Fernandez wrote on Twitter. "With this victory, I promise you I will take the courageous action that this historic moment demands. Muchísimas gracias!" New Mexico becomes the first state to elect all women of color to the House