"It could have gone either way," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in a video message posted April 12 as he reflected on his personal battle with COVID-19.  It was 16 days after Johnson tested positive for COVID-19 and three days after he spent 72 hours in an intensive care unit in central London, which he credited with saving his life.  Over the past few years, there have been many comparisons – some apt, others a stretch – made between Britain's leader and President Donald Trump: the political polarization, their distinctive hairstyles. Now, there's a new one: Johnson may be one of the few world leaders who understands what Trump faces in the days and weeks ahead after his positive coronavirus diagnosis.  Trump and COVID-19:President in hospital; many infected at White House gathering  Trump tests positive for COVID-19: Here's what we know.  Trump is receiving treatment at the Walter Reed National Military Hospital outside Washington, where the White House said he will spend the next few days. His doctors were "cautiously optimistic" about the president's condition Saturday but did not give a timetable for his discharge from the hospital.  First lady Melania Trump and at least 10 other people who were in close proximity with the Trumps also tested positive for the new coronavirus.  Boris Johnson's COVID-19 blueprint  When Johnson tested positive for coronavirus in late March, he became the first world leader to publicly acknowledge his illness. His descent into the clutches of a disease, which he said he believed he had a "50-50" chance of surviving, started slowly.  Initially, Johnson vowed it would be "business as usual" because he, like Trump, had only "mild symptoms" – a slight fever. He said he would continue to work in isolation from his official office and residence at No. 10 Downing St. in London and keep in constant touch with his Cabinet and lawmakers. He would do this through, he said, the "wizardry of modern technology," referring to applications such as Zoom and WhatsApp.  'Likely outcome':Trump's COVID-19 diagnosis followed waning precautions at White House  Within a few hours of his diagnosis, Johnson's health secretary contracted the virus.  Still, Johnson remained upbeat.  "Although I am sequestered ... I am absolutely confident we will beat it together," he said in a video message published on his social media accounts on April 1.  He had been COVID-19-positive for four days.  A few days later, Johnson appeared on the doorstep of Downing Street to "Clap for Carers" – applaud hospital staff and other emergency workers battling the epidemic.  He looked unwell, though aides insisted he would soon be on the mend, and it wouldn't be long before he could come out of isolation and get back to work full-tilt.  Then, a change.  On April 5, Downing Street released a very brief statement saying that Johnson had been admitted to a hospital for tests purely "as a precautionary step" because his symptoms persisted almost 10 days after he tested positive.  Questions swirled.  It was announced that Dominic Raab, Johnson's foreign secretary, would take over the running of the government if Johnson was incapacitated. But the prime minister, his aides insisted, was receiving "excellent care," and there was genuinely nothing to worry about.  Two days later, Johnson was in intensive care.  He was not put on a ventilator but confirmed later in media interviews that he received what he characterized as "liters and liters" of oxygen. A succession plan was drawn up, and there were discussions about how to announce it.  Johnson admitted he feared being near death.  World reacts:President Donald Trump's coronavirus infection draws international sympathy and a degree of schadenfreude  Queen Elizabeth II was briefed on the situation.  "They had a strategy to deal with a 'death of Stalin'-type scenario," Johnson told a British newspaper.  During the three nights that Johnson spent in the intensive care unit at London's St. Thomas Hospital, the public was told only that he was there for "close monitoring," that his condition remained stable and he was in "good spirits."  Higher risk for severe illness  In an 18-second video Trump posted on Twitter on Friday, immediately before traveling to Walter Reed, he said, "I think I'm doing very well. But we're going to make sure that things work out. The first lady is doing very well. So thank you very much."  Five hours later, another tweet: "Going welI, I think! Thank you to all. LOVE!!!"  Shortly before midnight, Sean Conley, the president's physician, gave an update, saying in a memo that Trump was "doing very well" and did not require any supplemental oxygen but that doctors started treating him with the antiviral drug remdesivir. Remdesivir has shortened recovery time for some coronavirus patients.  Saturday, Conley said the president was still doing "very well." He was not on oxygen or having trouble breathing, and he was fever-free.  The president’s vitals over the past day were "very concerning" and the next 48 hours would be critical for his care, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows told The Associated Press on Saturday.  Trump posted a video on Twitter saying he was doing well, but the next couple of days would be the "real test."  Trump given remdesivir to fight COVID-19:Here's what you need to know about it  Since the coronavirus outbreak began, doctors and scientists have stressed that those who test positive for the virus respond in different ways.  Johnson's doctors have not formally released information about which drugs he was treated with, but in March. remdesivir was not widely used.  Johnson, like Trump, is categorized as obese. At 74, Trump is 18 years older than Johnson. Both men are at high risk from the disease.  Britain's leader left the hospital April 9, then spent two weeks recovering at Chequers, the prime minister's country retreat, before returning to work.  Opinion:I know the pain of COVID-19 and how challenging recovery can be  Johnson did not play down the threat of coronavirus as much as Trump did, but in its earliest stages, he resisted calls for a lockdown.  In news statements, Johnson has repeatedly said that he owes his life to extremely dedicated hospital workers and staff.  "They pulled my chestnuts out of the fire, no question," he said.  Several weeks after he started back at work, Johnson often appeared to be short of breath in public appearances. He lost weight. The prime minister said this was partly because he had taken up jogging. He denied reports in the British media that he is struggling to recover from coronavirus and plans to step down in six months. 'It could have gone either way': What British leader Boris Johnson's COVID-19 battle may tell us about Trump's