Editors  USA TODAY  Trump taxes: Questions continue after NYT report  Questions are continuing to be asked Monday after President Donald Trump refused to discuss his tax returns after a report said he paid only $750 in personal federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017, and he paid no income taxes at all in 10 of the previous 15 years. Trump on Sunday dismissed a New York Times investigation into his tax records, which revealed a string of financial losses that helped him avoid paying taxes, and showed the president is beset by hundreds of millions in personal debt that will come due within the next four years. The analysis also found Trump earned millions abroad after he took office, raising questions about whether it conflicts with his role as president. The president dismissed the story Sunday during a news conference, calling the reporting "totally fake news." Trump was the first major presidential candidate in four decades to refuse to release tax returns and has long used the excuse that he cannot reveal them due to an audit by the Internal Revenue Service. However, an audit does not prevent Trump from releasing his records.  Top seven revelations from New York Times report on Trump income taxes  Prefer to listen? Check out the 5 things podcast below and subscribe for free on Apple Podcasts:  Heat wave brings 'critical risks' of wildfires to California  California residents are bracing for another wave of wildfires as the state is exposed to “critical risks for fire weather’’ Monday. The state’s biggest utility, PG&E, said it planned to cut off power to 89,000 customers Sunday through Monday morning, mostly in the Northern and Central Sierra but also extending to parts of the San Francisco Bay Area, as a preventive measure to avoid igniting fires. The number of affected customers was later reduced to 65,000. A new fire erupted early Sunday in the Napa Valley wine country north of San Francisco, quickly burning through 1,000 acres and forcing officials to order mandatory evacuations.  Widespread: Aerial footage shows smoke and flames from wildfire rise into night sky in California  Deadline arrives for Trump administration to stop holding immigrant children in hotels  Hundreds, possibly thousands, of immigrant children are being held in hotels in several cities for prolonged periods of time under secretive emergency measures that quickly expel undocumented immigrants who arrive at the border during the pandemic. A federal judge last week gave the Trump administration until Monday to put an end to the practice. U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee ruled Sept. 4 that the government's detention of children longer than 72 hours violated a settlement that governs the treatment of immigrant children in custody – and previously ordered the Trump administration to stop holding the children in hotels as part of the policy by Sept. 15. But the practice has continued while the Trump administration sought stays pending an appeal.  US now using several hotel companies including Hilton, Marriott to detain migrant children  including Hilton, Marriott to detain migrant children Hotel group condemns Trump administration's use of hotels to hold migrant kids  Tampa Bay looks to beat Dallas, lift Stanley Cup  The Tampa Bay Lightning will try again Monday to finish off the Dallas Stars as the two teams meet in Game 6 of the Stanley Cup Finals (8 p.m. ET, NBC). The Lightning lead the Stars in the best-of-seven series, three games to two. The Stars stayed alive in Game 5 Saturday in a come-from-behind, double-overtime victory. Center Joe Pavelski tied the game in the third period with a power-play goal and Corey Perry sealed the 3-2 win with his second goal of the game. Interesting stat: The Lightning are 6-0 in the postseason after a loss.  Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day of Atonement, ends  Yom Kippur, which is observed from sundown Sunday to sundown Monday, is considered the holiest day of the year in Judaism. It’s a high holiday that follows Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. Yom Kippur translates from Hebrew to English as Day of Atonement. Traditionally, Jews spend the holiday fasting and reflecting on sins committed over the past year. According to Jewish tradition, one's fate is decided on Rosh Hashanah and sealed on Yom Kippur. People who observe Yom Kippur neither eat nor drink for 25 hours, with the exception of children and those for whom fasting is dangerous. Once the period of fasting ends, it’s time to break the fast with bagels and egg dishes. Trump taxes, California wildfires, Stanley Cup: 5 things to know Monday