I'm Winston Gieseke, philanthropy and special sections editor for The Desert Sun in Palm Springs, and welcome to In California, election-style. And if you've been white-knuckling it all day, you are not alone. Here are the latest updates on the various races here in the Golden State.  In California brings you top Golden State stories and commentary from across the USA TODAY Network and beyond. Get it free, straight to your inbox.  All the props: Uber wins, felons on parole get to vote but 17-year-olds don't, and privacy measure passes  This election, Californians had some decisions to make, ranging from criminal justice reform and stem-cell research to the employment status of app-based drivers and whether to allow 17-year-olds to vote in primary and special elections.  As results rolled in Tuesday, many of the measures appeared to be hotly contested. Here are the results so far:  Proposition 14: The measure that would keep alive California's first-of-its-kind stem cell research program with a $5.5 billion infusion of borrowed money had a narrow lead.  Proposition 15: The initiative to partially dismantle California’s longtime system of tying property taxes to the last sales price was trailing narrowly Tuesday with several million votes still to be counted.  Proposition 16: A national awakening on race drove a well-funded campaign in California to reinstate affirmative action, but the measure failed.  Proposition 17: The measure restoring the right to vote for felons on parole was decisively passed.  Proposition 18: Seventeen-year-olds who will turn 18 and eligible to vote in the next general election will not be able to vote in primary elections that same year.  Proposition 19: This measure, which would give Californians 55 or older a big property tax break when buying a new home, was too close to call as of Wednesday, but the measure was passing with 51.5% of voters saying yes.  Typically when Californians buy a new home, their property taxes shoot way up. That’s because property taxes here are based mostly on the value of a home when a person buys it — not its current market value. Baby Boomers who bought a home right after Woodstock are paying way less in property taxes than the tech yuppies who bought an identical bungalow last year.  This prop would allow the Boomer couple to buy a new house anywhere in the state and retain their relatively low property taxes.  Proposition 20: Voters defeated this measure, which would have added crimes to the list of violent felonies for which early parole is restricted; recategorized certain types of theft and fraud crimes as "wobblers" (chargeable as misdemeanors or felonies); and required DNA collection for certain misdemeanors.  Proposition 21: This ballot measure, which would have let California cities expand rent control in a state where residents are grappling with rising housing costs, was soundly rejected.  Proposition 22: Uber, Lyft and other app-based ride-hailing and delivery services spent $200 million in a winning bet to circumvent California lawmakers and the courts to preserve their business model by keeping drivers from becoming employees eligible for certain benefits and job protections.  The titans of the so-called gig economy bankrolled the most expensive ballot measure in the state's history, which was decided Tuesday with 58% of voters choosing to keep drivers classified as independent contractors.  Uber saw its stock rise more than 14% Wednesday, adding more than $9 billion to its market value. Lyft, meanwhile, saw its value increase by nearly $1 billion as shares rose 11%, the San Francisco Chronicle noted.  Supporters of Prop. 22 said the outcome showed voters wanted to preserve the flexibility of the current system. Opponents said the companies had bought their own law and vowed to continue fighting for drivers' rights.  San Francisco-based Uber and Lyft had threatened to pull out of California if they lost. They got additional support in the fight from DoorDash, Postmates and Instacart, which all could have had their businesses upended if it failed.  Proposition 23: California voters rejected a ballot measure to require a doctor or highly trained nurse at each of California’s 600 dialysis clinics.  Proposition 24: Voters approved a measure to expand a digital privacy law that was passed two years ago. Proposition 24 includes provisions to triple the fines for companies that violate kids' privacy and will create a dedicated state agency to enforce the law that was passed in 2018.  The measure had more than 56% support Wednesday.  Proponents of the measure said it would strengthen California's privacy law and help hold big business accountable. One area of disagreement is whether companies should have to ask permission to sell consumers’ data (the “opt in” model) or whether consumers should have to ask companies to stop selling it (“opt out”).  The existing law requires Californians to opt out. Proposition 24 does not make “opting out” of data collection the default, meaning that consumers need to sort through apps and websites to register their preferences, rather than requiring companies to ask consumers for their permission to sell data.  Proposition 25: The state’s traditional cash bail system was the victor in this year's balloting, as voters rejected a move to rely instead on risk assessments to decide which suspects should remain jailed awaiting trial.  Joe Biden wins California with a margin that may set a record  It was no surprise: In the presidential race, former Vice President Joe Biden won the state of California. Associated Press declared him the victor almost immediately after polls closed on Tuesday. At the time, preliminary results showed Biden had received 66% of votes.  While it will take some time to count all the ballots — California law allows those postmarked by Nov. 3 to arrive in the mail up to 17 days after the election — The Sacramento Bee reports that pre-election polling "suggested Biden could secure the largest victory margin in a California presidential election since 1920, when Republican Warren Harding defeated Democrat James Cox by 42 percentage points."  California voters have long supported Democratic candidates in presidential elections, with Hillary Clinton winning the state by 30 points in 2016 and Barack Obama winning with 23 in 2012. The last Republican nominee to win California was George H.W. Bush in 1988.  As of press time, voters favored Biden by a 2-1 margin, which CalMatters called "a victory in the state of historic proportions." (Not all counties, though, went for Biden. Many in the so-called North State, as well as some in the Central Valley, supported Trump.)  The San Francisco Chronicle, meanwhile, reported that California helped propel Biden "to win more votes than any presidential candidate in history": "With 70,172,017 popular votes nationwide as of Wednesday morning, Biden had already surpassed former President Barack Obama’s popular vote record of 2008 against John McCain: 69,498,516."  In widely watched L.A. district attorney race, former S.F. DA George Gascon leads Jackie Lacey  The race to run the nation's largest district attorney’s office became contentious as a progressive prosecutor promising major criminal justice reforms for the City of Los Angeles took an early lead.  Former San Francisco District Attorney George Gascon led two-term incumbent DA Jackie Lacey with 54% of more than 2.7 million votes counted by Wednesday.  The battle is a test to see how willing Los Angeles County residents are to reform criminal justice following months of protests focused on police brutality and racial inequality.  A career prosecutor, Lacey is the first woman and the first Black person to hold the office. Gascon, a Cuban immigrant who moved to Los Angeles as a teen, spent most of his career in a police uniform.  In a race full of contradictions, police unions have contributed millions of dollars to defeat Gascon, while Black Lives Matter demonstrators have called for Lacey's ousting.  Lacey has said Gascon lacks courtroom experience and believes crime will increase if he wins. Gascon said Lacey's efforts have filled jails with people who should be getting mental health treatment instead of prison sentences. More than $14 million in donations poured into the race.  That's what's happening. Stay tuned: In California will be back tomorrow with more headlines from the Golden State.  In California is a roundup of news from across USA Today network newsrooms. Also contributing: CalMatters, The Sacramento Bee, the San Francisco Chronicle. In California: Uber wins big. Voters back privacy law. And will L.A. get a new D.A.?