Former Vice President Joe Biden continues to lead President Donald Trump in Arizona with support reaching the critical 50% level, less than a week before ballots are sent out, a new poll finds.  The same statewide poll found Democrat Mark Kelly with a commanding lead over Sen. Martha McSally, R-Ariz., suggesting Democrats in the state could sweep the top two races for the first time since 1944.  A Suffolk University/USA TODAY Network poll of 500 likely voters in the battleground state showed Biden with a 4-percentage-point lead over Trump.  Kelly led McSally by 9 percentage points.  Biden's lead is similar to 10 polls by others in Arizona taken completely in September. Biden led in eight of those polls, Trump led in one and there was one tie, according to Real Clear Politics.  Kelly has led in all eight of the polls taken in September, usually by high single-digit margins, the website reports.  The Suffolk poll, conducted between Saturday and Wednesday, has a margin of error of 4.4 percentage points.  David Paleologos, director of the Suffolk University Political Research Center in Boston, said Cindy McCain's endorsement of Biden happened just as the poll began and could be significant.  "Her endorsement really is important demographically in ways that a lot of people aren't picking up," he said, noting that her backing likely has the most impact on whites and moderates.  And Biden reached the 50% mark late in the race and with only 2% of respondents undecided, he said.  "That's an important threshold to hit," Paleologos said.  End of the debates?:Future of presidential debates unclear after Trump tests positive; Trump family largely ignored mask rules Tuesday  Apart from the candidate preferences, the poll reflected other worrisome signs for the president's chances in the state as voting in Arizona is set to begin.  Most Arizonans – 56% – say the country is on the wrong track, and 53% say they have an unfavorable view of Trump, while the same share say they generally like Biden.  More than half, 51%, rated Trump's handling of the pandemic as "poor."  The same share said they would prefer that Trump not fill the Supreme Court vacancy before his term expires, though the issue doesn't seem to have a significant effect on voter opinion. About 43% said he should fill the seat opened by the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.  About 16% said Trump's effort to quickly fill the seat made them more likely to vote for him and 17% said it made them less likely to do so. The majority — 65% — said it made no difference.  The poll of live callers was mostly completed before the first presidential debate, an event widely seen as a bad night for Trump's prospects.  Next week, Trump had been scheduled to return to Arizona, traveling to Tucson and Flagstaff on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. However, Trump announced early Friday he and first lady Melania Trump had tested positive for COVID-19 and would "begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately."  On Thursday, Biden and his running mate, Sen. Kamala Harris of California, will travel to Arizona.  The poll found that 18% of respondents said the biggest issue facing the winner of the election is managing job growth and the economy. Another 15% said it was handling the coronavirus pandemic.  But the biggest concern, said 19%, was bringing the country together.  Trump is behind with Arizona voters despite an economic record that would usually suggest higher approval ratings.  Nearly 80% of respondents described Arizona's economic conditions between fair and excellent. Less than one in five said conditions are poor. Asked whether they are better off than they were four years ago, 45% said they were and 23% at least said they weren't worse off.  That's where those polled say Trump's personal style enters the equation.  Tucson retiree Grady Bowman, 76, is an independent who is supporting Biden and Kelly. He views Trump as selfish and hostile to immigrants, positions he cannot look past.  "I don't like the way he cuts the taxes to help himself," Bowman said. "I am not anti-immigration. I'm married to a lady from Mexico and have a foster daughter from Oman who's a Muslim."  Republican Lloyd Knox, 53, of Gilbert, sees Trump as bringing the right approach to institutions that have stagnated far too long.  "I believe the United States should be run like a business, not politics as usual," Knox said. "He's gotten quite a bit done in his short time there. And had he had a Congress that actually wanted to work with him, how much more would we have gotten done?"  Marlene Kenner, an 86-year-old Republican retiree in Sun City, also sees Trump as delivering on his promises, especially on immigration, which remains her top issue. She is dismayed by glowing support for Biden from others.  "He's trying to look and act like a sweet granddaddy. It's totally wrong. It's so lopsided," she said. "People think he's so wonderful. He's really not that wonderful person he says he is. He didn't do anything for years."  Mesa resident and health care worker Stephanie Waddell, 26, is a Democrat who, as a supporter of Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., in the primaries, prefers more liberal candidates. While she isn't thrilled with either Biden or Kelly, she will gladly take them over the GOP slate.  "I consider myself a bit more progressive than either of their stances," Waddell said in an interview with The Arizona Republic after the poll. "But I think a lot is on the line this election, including like our voting rights. As a female, a lot of rights, like my right to birth control and my right to make choices about my own body, are a little bit on the line."  Follow reporter Ronald J. Hansen on Twitter @ronaldjhansen. Biden's lead over Trump holding in battleground Arizona as voters see US on wrong track