We all see the headlines. America is hopelessly divided. Protests are erupting in communities across the country. It is more and more difficult for citizens to reach agreement on contentious social issues.  While much of this is accurate, it is also true that areas of agreement on how to best tackle major issues such as jobs, immigration, racial injustice and the coronavirus can be identified if we make the effort to examine trade-offs and potential solutions.  Hidden Common Ground seeks to explore how and where Americans are coming together on these and other critical issues facing the nation. It is spearheaded by Public Agenda and USA TODAY, with the National Issues Forums, Ipsos, and the America Amplified: Election 2020 Public Media Collaborative.  The project is supported by the the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, the Charles Koch Foundation and the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. Ipsos conducted the public opinion research and the Kettering Foundation is a research partner for the initiative.  Hidden Common Ground initiative challenges the narrative of a divided America USA TODAY  THE POLITICAL DIVIDE  Divided we fall? More than 9 in 10 Americans believe it is critical that the United States address political divisions Divided we fall? More than 9 in 10 Americans believe it is critical that the United States address political divisions Americans believe the national debate over just about everything, driven by national leaders, social media and the news media has exacerbated divisions to the detriment of ordinary people. Read more  People wait in line to vote in Georgias Primary Election on June 9, 2020 in Atlanta. Voters in Georgia, West Virginia, South Carolina, North Dakota, and Nevada are holding primaries amid the coronavirus pandemic. Elijah Nouvelage, Getty Images  Americans believe the national debate over just about everything, driven by national leaders, social media and the news media has exacerbated divisions to the detriment of ordinary people.  Copy text Copy this quote's text The quote has been copied Tweet Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Lynn Andino, 53, a nurse and political independent from New Rochelle, in the New York City suburbs “The hardest thing with the climate in the government is, you turn on the news, they can’t even sit down and have a discussion; they can’t work out anything.”  JOBS AND ECONOMIC INEQUALITY  Most Democratic and Republican voters agree on ways to boost the economy, but politics stands in the way Most Democratic and Republican voters agree on ways to boost the economy, but politics stands in the way Regardless of party affiliation, most Americans agree on proposals to upgrade infrastructure, give tax breaks to businesses that create jobs, cut college costs and retrain adults for better-paying positions. Read more  In this photo taken Thursday, June 4, 2020, a pedestrian wearing a mask walks past reader board advertising a job opening for a remodeling company, in Seattle. Elaine Thompson, AP  Regardless of party affiliation, most Americans agree on proposals to upgrade infrastructure, give tax breaks to businesses that create jobs, cut college costs and retrain adults for better-paying positions.  Copy text Copy this quote's text The quote has been copied Tweet Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Jan Rivkin, a professor at Harvard Business School “The rewards go not to those that solve problems but to those that rile up their base. Somewhere along the way, compromise became a dirty word.”  RACE AND POLICING  In the wake of George Floyd’s death at the hands of police, a broad swath of Americans believe racial bias is a serious problem In the wake of George Floyd’s death at the hands of police, a broad swath of Americans believe racial bias is a serious problem A majority of Americans believe police reforms are necessary to reduce instances of police brutality against Black Americans. They include widespread and bipartisan support of training on de-escalation tactics and racial biases. Read more  Show caption Hide caption People occupy the intersection of Chicago Ave and E. 38th Street after the curfew went into effect at 10PM in Minneapolis, MN on Monday, June... People occupy the intersection of Chicago Ave and E. 38th Street after the curfew went into effect at 10PM in Minneapolis, MN on Monday, June 1, 2020. The intersection is the location of Cup Foods and the location where George Floyd died in police custody on May 25, 2020. Jack Gruber, USA TODAY  A majority of Americans believe police reforms are necessary to reduce instances of police brutality against Black Americans. They include widespread and bipartisan support of training on de-escalation tactics and racial biases.  Copy text Copy this quote's text The quote has been copied Tweet Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Yismo Rosenberg of Houston “Some officers will profile Black people. ... I know I can get away with more things as a white person than a Black person could.”  IMMIGRATION  Path to citizenship for ‘dreamers’ and humane treatment for border crossers enjoys broad support Path to citizenship for ‘dreamers’ and humane treatment for border crossers enjoys broad support The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program enjoys broad support among Democrats and Republicans, in addition to temporary restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. All groups supported the general principle of securing the border, the value of immigrants who are doctors, engineers and scientists, and the idea that the U.S. government should humanely treat all immigrants who cross the border. Read more  Show caption Hide caption Dulce Garcia, right, carries a cup of coffee as she crosses the border from Mexicali, Mexico, to Calexico, Calif., on July 22, 2020. Like many... Dulce Garcia, right, carries a cup of coffee as she crosses the border from Mexicali, Mexico, to Calexico, Calif., on July 22, 2020. Like many in Mexicali, Garcia lives in Mexico but works in Calexico. "Everybody's scared of the pandemic but we have to cross," Garcia said. "We have to survive." Gregory Bull, AP  The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program enjoys broad support among Democrats and Republicans, in addition to temporary restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. All groups supported the general principle of securing the border, the value of immigrants who are doctors, engineers and scientists, and the idea that the U.S. government should humanely treat all immigrants who cross the border.  Copy text Copy this quote's text The quote has been copied Tweet Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Joe Jones of Southaven, Miss., a registered independent who votes for Republican and Democratic candidates “America is looked upon as a beacon of light. There are people being persecuted. If they can prove it, without a doubt, I would take some of them.”  HEALTH CARE AND CORONAVIRUS  Affordable health insurance and prescription drugs, prioritizing public health are on the minds of most Americans  Health and safety are foremost in the minds of many Americans, particularly since the coronavirus pandemic took hold in the spring of 2020. An overwhelming majority of Americans want to make health care more affordable for ordinary families, cutting the cost of prescription drugs and making sure people with preexisting conditions have access to insurance. The problem? Politicized descriptions of solutions.  “There are these sort of flashpoints with politicized terminology that send people to their partisan corners,” said former Vermont Gov. Jim Douglas, a Republican who is on the board of the bipartisan, nonprofit United States of Care. “If we avoid them, we’re going to be more successful.”  As the coronavirus pandemic extended from spring to summer and fall, Americans are prioritizing public health over the economy.  Copy text Copy this quote's text The quote has been copied Tweet Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Eva Coffee, 63, an independent voter from Booneville, Ark. “It’s a lot more important to protect people’s health. If there’s not people then the economy’s going to die anyway.”  CLIMATE CHANGE  Most Americans agree the planet is heating up and support a range of potential solutions Most Americans agree the planet is heating up and support a range of potential solutions Americans across the political spectrum agree that global climate change is real. There is also substantial agreement on a range of solutions, from modernizing the U.S. electric grid to increased investment in tech to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Read more  Show caption Hide caption In this Sept. 7, 2020, file photo, a firefighter battles the Creek Fire as it threatens homes in the Cascadel Woods neighborhood of Madera County,... In this Sept. 7, 2020, file photo, a firefighter battles the Creek Fire as it threatens homes in the Cascadel Woods neighborhood of Madera County, Calif. This year's fires have taxed the human, mechanical and financial resources of the nation's wildfire fighting forces to a degree that few past blazes did. And half of the fire season is yet to come. Noah Berger, AP  Americans across the political spectrum agree that global climate change is real. There is also substantial agreement on a range of solutions, from modernizing the U.S. electric grid to increased investment in tech to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.  Copy text Copy this quote's text The quote has been copied Tweet Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Jon Krosnick, a professor of political science at Stanford University in Palo Alto, California, who has long conducted survey research on attitudes toward climate change “A majority of Republicans are actually on what I call the ‘green side’ of the issue, a huge majority of Democrats are, and a large proportion of Independents.”  STRANGE BEDFELLOWS  Bridging divides – political and otherwise – to make a positive impact Bridging divides – political and otherwise – to make a positive impact Across the country, USA TODAY Network reporters sought to identify ways individuals and elected officials are working across perceived divides to make a positive impact in their communities. We are calling these examples “Strange Bedfellows,” not because they are odd in and of themselves, but because, collectively, they run counter to the narrative of a hopelessly divided nation. For example, a conservative Republican majority in the Mississippi state legislature worked alongside Democrats to remove the Confederate battle emblem from its state flag. Read more  Show caption Hide caption Mississippi Department of Finance and Administration employees Willie Townsend, left, and Joe Brown attach a Mississippi state flag to the harness before raising it over... Mississippi Department of Finance and Administration employees Willie Townsend, left, and Joe Brown attach a Mississippi state flag to the harness before raising it over the Capitol grounds in Jackson, Miss., Tuesday, June 30, 2020. The state was the last to remove the Confederate battle emblem from its flag. Rogelio V. Solis/AP  Across the country, USA TODAY Network reporters sought to identify ways individuals and elected officials are working across perceived divides – partisan, racial, religious or otherwise – to make a positive impact in their communities.  We are calling these examples “Strange Bedfellows,” not because they are odd in and of themselves, but because, collectively, they run counter to the narrative of a hopelessly divided nation.  For example, a conservative Republican majority in the Mississippi state legislature worked alongside Democrats to remove the Confederate battle emblem from its state flag. It was the last state to do so. Hidden Common Ground: Challenging the narrative of a divided America