There may be plenty of aspects of Halloween that are canceled this year, but horror is not one of them.  At least that appears to be the case based on Netflix's list of new October shows and movies, which includes the "Haunting of Hill House" successor "The Haunting of Bly Manor," Lily James and Armie Hammer's gothic tale "Rebecca" and Norwegian psychological horror film "Cadaver."  But there's plenty of room for new comedy, too: Adam Sandler's "Hubie Halloween," Sarah Cooper's special "Everything's Fine" and fresh episodes of the Emmy-sweeping "Schitt's Creek" are being added to the streaming service.  See below for all of the titles arriving and leaving Netflix next month (and go here to find out what was added in September).  Oct. 1: 'Her,' 'Basic Instinct' added  Bom Dia, Verônica / Good Morning, Verônica (Netflix Original) Brazilian series about a cop who discovers a couple's secret while hunting for a dating-site predator.  Carmen Sandiego: Season 3 (Netflix Family)Gina Rodriguez returns to voice Carmen, who makes stops in Mexico City, New Orleans and Venice.  Oktoberfest: Beer & Blood (Netflix Original) Set in 1900 Munich, the German series follows a rich newcomer who plans to crash Oktoberfest with his own brewery.  Pasal Kau / All Because of You (Netflix Film) A hotel staffer falls for a guest and becomes embroiled in a hostage scheme in this Malaysian movie.  The Worst Witch: Season 4 (Netflix Family) Bella Ramsey ("Game of Thrones") is back as heroine Mildred Hubble in this British series.  A.M.I.  Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls  Along Came a Spider  Bakugan: Armored Alliance: Season 2  Basic Instinct  Black '47  Cape Fear  Code Lyoko: Season 1-4  The Dukes of Hazzard (2005)  Employee of the Month  Enemy at the Gates  Evil: Season 1  Familiar Wife: Season 1  Fargo  Food Wars!: Shokugeki no Soma: The Second Plate  Free State of Jones  Ghost Rider  Ghosts of Girlfriends Past  Gran Torino  Her  House of 1,000 Corpses  Human Nature  Hunt for the Wilderpeople  I'm Leaving Now  The Longest Yard (1974)  The Parkers: Season 1-5  The Pirates! Band of Misfits  Carlos Almaraz: Playing With Fire  The Prince & Me  Poseidon (2006)  The Outpost  Stranger Than Fiction  Superman Returns  Sword Art Online: Alicization  Troy  The Unicorn: Season 1  WarGames  You Cannot Hide: Season 1  Oct. 2  A Go! Go! Cory Carson Halloween (Netflix Family) Cory and the gang of cars search for king-size candy bars on Halloween in this animated special.  Ahí te encargo / You’ve Got This (Netflix Film) A man brings someone new home as his wife's star is rising in this Mexican comedy.  The Binding (Netflix Film) A woman must fight a malevolent curse while visiting her fiancé's mother in this Italian thriller.  Dick Johnson Is Dead (Netflix Documentary) In this documentary, a filmmaker comically stages the demise of her octogenarian father as they both face his actual death.  Emily in Paris (Netflix Original) Lily Collins stars in a show from Darren Star ("Sex and the City," "Younger") about a marketing executive from Chicago who moves to Paris for her dream job.  Òlòtūré (Netflix Film) In this African drama, a young woman goes undercover to expose human trafficking in Nigeria.  Serious Men (Netflix Film) An Indian film about a man who lies to gain upward mobility, which could be dangerous for his son.  Song Exploder (Netflix Original) The popular podcast from Hrishikesh Hirway becomes a series that dives into songs from Alicia Keys, Lin-Manuel Miranda and more.  Vampires vs. the Bronx (Netflix Film) Young friends from the Bronx fight to save their neighborhood from vampires.  Oct. 4  Colombiana  David Attenborough: A Life on Our Planet (Netflix Documentary) The broadcaster recounts the evolutionary history of life on Earth in this documentary.  Oct. 6  Saturday Church  StarBeam: Halloween Hero (Netflix Family) StarBeam and Boost work to save the day after Halloween treats are stolen.  Walk Away from Love  Oct. 7  Hubie Halloween (Netflix Film) Adam Sandler is the title character in his latest Netflix film about Halloween's biggest fan, who must keep his town safe.  Schitt's Creek: Season 6  To the Lake (Netflix Original) A group deals with a terrifying plague in this series.  Oct. 9  Deaf U (Netflix Original) A reality series about a group of friends who attend Gallaudet University, a school for the deaf and hard of hearing.  Fast & Furious Spy Racers: Season 2: Rio (Netflix Family) The Spy Racers leave LA in order to take down a crime organization in Brazil.  The Forty-Year-Old Version (Netflix Film) A New York City playwright tries reinventing herself as a rapper before she turns 40.  Ginny Weds Sunny (Netflix Film) A bachelor hopes to win over a former crush by getting help from her mother.  The Haunting of Bly Manor (Netflix Original) The next chapter of "The Haunting" anthology series, after "The Haunting of Hill House," is set in 1980s England.  Super Monsters: Dia de los Monsters (Netflix Family) The Super Monsters visit Vida's hometown for a Dia De Los Muertos parade.  Oct. 12  Kipo and the Age of Wonderbeasts: Season 3 (Netflix Family) Kipo and Co. go on a mission to fight Dr. Emilia.  Oct. 13  The Cabin With Bert Kreischer (Netflix Comedy Special) The comedian is joined by celebrity friends in a cabin for a five-episode docuseries.  Octonauts & the Great Barrier Reef (Netflix Family) The Octonauts have to hold back coral-eating starfish in this special.  Oct. 14  Alice Junior  BLACKPINK: Light Up the Sky (Netflix Documentary) A behind-the-scenes look at record-breaking Korean girl band BLACKPINK.  Moneyball  Oct. 15  A Babysitter's Guide to Monster Hunting (Netflix Film) A high school freshman is recruited into a secret society of babysitters meant to protect kids with special powers from monsters.  Batman: The Killing Joke  Half & Half: Season 1-4  Love Like the Falling Rain (Netflix Film) A young man struggles to share his feelings for his best friend, who falls for another man.  One on One: Season 1-5  Power Rangers Beast Morphers: Season 2, Part 1  Rooting for Roona (Netflix Documentary) The film follows a child with hydrocephalus who gets a life-changing surgery.  Social Distance (Netflix Original) An anthology series, shot in isolation, takes on staying connecting while staying apart.  Oct. 16  Alguien tiene que morir / Someone Has to Die (Netflix Original) In conservative 1950s Spain, an alleged relationship between a young man and a male ballet dancer creates an uproar.  Dream Home Makeover (Netflix Original) Shea and Syd McGee of studio McGee update homes for real families.  Grand Army (Netflix Original) Five students at a Brooklyn public high school fight to succeed and seize the future.  La Révolution (Netflix Original) A reimagined history of 1787 France about the future inventor of the guillotine.  The Last Kids on Earth: Book 3 (Netflix Family) Jack worries that a newly discovered radio transmitter may put an end to his friends' fun.  The Trial of the Chicago 7 (Netflix Film) Sacha Baron Cohen, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II and Eddie Redmayne star in this film from Aaron Sorkin about a protest at the 1968 Democratic National Convention that turned into a violent clash with the National Guard.  Unfriended  Oct. 18  ParaNorman  Oct. 19  Unsolved Mysteries: Volume 2 (Netflix Documentary) Six new episodes cover unexplained disappearances and tragic events.  Oct. 20  Carol  The Magic School Bus Rides Again The Frizz Connection (Netflix Family) Lightning splits the Magic School Bus into three pieces, with different versions of Ms. Frizzle aboard each.  Oct. 21  My Next Guest Needs No Introduction With David Letterman: Season 3 (Netflix Original) Letterman continues to conduct interviews, this time with Dave Chappelle and Robert Downey Jr.  Rebecca (Netflix Film) Lily James, Armie Hammer and Kristin Scott Thomas star in this thriller about a woman who moves into her new husband's estate that is haunted by his first wife.  Oct. 22  Bending the Arc  Cadaver (Netflix Film) In this Norwegian psychological horror film set in the aftermath of a nuclear disaster, a starving family is encouraged to participate in a play at a hotel.  The Hummingbird Project  Yes, God, Yes  Oct. 23  Barbarians (Netflix Original) The fates of three people are interwoven in the year 9, when Germanic warriors halt the spread of the Roman Empire.  Move (Netflix Original) The documentary series showcases brilliant dancers and choreographers.  Over the Moon (Netflix Film) This animated musical about a young girl who builds a rocket ship to prove the presence of a Moon Goddess features the voices of Cathy Ang, Phillipa Soo, Robert G. Chiu, Ken Jeong, John Cho, Ruthie Ann Miles, Margaret Cho, Kimiko Glenn, Artt Butler and Sandra Oh.  Perdida (Netflix Original) A man gets arrested so he'll be sent to Colombia's worst prison and can go after the man who kidnapped his daughter.  The Queen's Gambit (Netflix Original) A limited-series drama based on the Walter Tevis novel about a young girl who discovers an astonishing talent for chess while struggling with an addiction.  Oct. 27  Blood of Zeus (Netflix Anime) A commoner in ancient Greece discovers he's the son of Zeus.  Chico Bon Bon: Monkey With a Tool Belt: Season 4 (Netflix Family) The "Fix-it Force" build a new skate park and stop a vehicle from falling off a cliff.  Sarah Cooper: Everything's Fine (Netflix Comedy Special) Cooper, who becamefamous for lip-syncing President Trump's comments, delivers an hour of comedy about politics, race, gender and class. .  Vilas: Serás lo que debas ser o no serás nada / Guillermo Vilas: Settling the Score (Netflix Documentary) A film about a crusade to prove that Guillermo Vilas was the world's best tennis player of his time.  Oct. 28  Holidate (Netflix Film) Emma Roberts and Luke Bracey star as strangers who make a pact to be each other's dates for the holidays.  Metallica Through the Never  Nobody Sleeps in the Woods Tonight (Netflix Film) A group of technology-addicted teens go to a rehabilitation camp in the forest, where a sinister force intends to take them offline forever.  Secrets of the Saqqara Tomb (Netflix Documentary) A team of archaeologists excavate never before explored shafts and passageways in Egypt.  Oct. 30  Bronx (Netflix Film) A team of cops investigate in Marseille, France, and realize that some fellow officers may be working with the city's gangs.  The Day of the Lord (Netflix Film) The film follows a retired priest who suffers a crisis of faith and takes a chance for redemption.  His House (Netflix Film) A young refugee couple escape from war-torn South Sudan to a small English town that has evil lurking beneath the surface.  Somebody Feed Phil: Season 4 (Netflix Original) Phil Rosenthal travels the globe for more local cuisine.  Suburra: Season 3 (Netflix Original) The series about a fight over land in an Italian seaside town continues.  Oct. 31  The 12th Man  Leaving Sept. 30  Parks & Recreation: Seasons 1-7  Leaving Oct. 1  Emelie  The Good, the Bad and the Ugly  Sleeping With Other People  Leaving Oct. 2  Cult of Chucky  Truth or Dare  Leaving Oct. 6  The Water Diviner  Leaving Oct. 7  The Last Airbender  Leaving Oct. 17  The Green Hornet  Leaving Oct. 19  Paper Year  Leaving Oct. 22  While We're Young  Leaving Oct. 26  Battle: Los Angeles  Leaving Oct. 30  Kristy  Leaving Oct. 31  Ace Ventura: Pet Detective  Burlesque  Charlotte's Web  Clash of the Titans  District 9  The Firm  Fun With Dick & Jane  The Girl With All the Gifts  Grandmaster  Highway to Heaven: Season 1-5  The Interview  Just Friends  Magic Mike  Nacho Libre  The Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad!  The NeverEnding Story  The NeverEnding Story 2: The Next Chapter  Nights in Rodanthe  The Patriot  Set Up  The Silence of the Lambs  Sleepless in Seattle  Sleepy Hollow  Spaceballs  The Taking of Pelham 123  The Ugly Truth  Underworld  Underworld: Evolution  Underworld: Rise of the Lycans  Zathura Everything coming to Netflix in October: From Adam Sandler's new movie to more 'Schitt's Creek'