Miles Taylor is known now as the "Anonymous" author of a 2018 newspaper column and 2019 book that attacked President Donald Trump's leadership. But, previously, Taylor made headlines for his role in the Trump administration's immigration policies.  Democrats spoke out against Taylor in a November 2019 letter to Google's CEO after the company hired Taylor. CNET reports Taylor is currently on unpaid leave from Google.  "During his tenure as a top DHS official, Taylor weighed in on and helped implement immigration policies related to family separation, the Muslim Ban, and other policies that have been detrimental to immigrant communities," a letter from the chairs of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Congressional Black Caucus, and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus reads.  During his time in the Trump administration, Taylor also occasionally spoke publicly about the administration's immigration policies.  'Anonymous' revealed:Former aide Miles Taylor says he wrote scathing opinion piece on Donald Trump  In 2017, NPR quoted Taylor in coverage of the Trump administration's controversial travel ban, which restricted travel from numerous predominately Muslim countries. At that time, the ban was expiring and the administration was considering other options.  "We need to know who is coming into our country. We should be able to validate their identities," Taylor said, according to NPR.  'Gutless':Trump slams New York Times op-ed but fails twice in attempt to say 'anonymous'  Taylor's public image shifted earlier this year when he spoke out against the president in a video released Aug. 17 by an organization called Republican Voters Against Trump. In subsequent interviews, Taylor denied he was "Anonymous."  Taylor said Trump would give illegal orders to DHS and “didn’t want us to tell him it was illegal anymore because he knew that … he had ‘magical authorities.'"  As Taylor gained attention as a Trump critic, some Republicans described him as a little-known staffer seeking to make a name for himself at Trump's expense.  "I had never heard of Miles Taylor, but did ask around and heard back that he was a major self-promoter," said Brendan Buck, a former spokesman for GOP House Speakers John Boehner and Paul Ryan. "Makes sense now."  That's a theme echoed by Trump, who on Wednesday and previously said he did not know Taylor. Taylor has responded by tweeting photos of himself with Trump.  Taylor resigned from the Department of Homeland Security in June 2019. That was several months after Politico documented low DHS morale and listed Taylor among those in danger of being "pushed out" of the administration.  Previously, Taylor served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Counselor to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly and worked in the George W. Bush administration, according to a biography published by Republican Political Alliance for Integrity & Reform.  Contributing: David Jackson, Richard Wolf and Kevin Johnson, USA TODAY Who is Miles Taylor? 'Anonymous' author was known for working on Donald Trump's immigration policies.