Andy Slavitt  Opinion columnist  Americans voted for Joe Biden for president in large part because of the importance of health care to them. In the midst of a poorly managed pandemic, Biden has a clear set of priorities that Americans hope he finds a way to deliver on. Life for him got more complicated when Democrats didn’t pick up the Senate majority. Even if they win the two seats in Georgia that will be decided in January, he would only have a single vote margin — making it tough to pass sweeping legislation.  Still, if he does it right, Biden could make substantial progress in leading us into a healthier future. His top 10 priorities should be:  1. COVID, COVID, COVID (science): As the president-elect has said, nothing moves forward until he has taken the crisis down to where it needs to be. Biden will inherit the country right around the time cases are peaking, with a death toll that could be more than 300,000. Managing COVID will begin with following the lead of scientists. Job One for Biden will be building awareness, trust and an infrastructure for equitable vaccine distribution.  2. More COVID, COVID, COVID (better management): Biden must make it a priority to use the bully pulpit which has been essentially empty since the crisis has begun to convince Americans why they should wear masks, socially distance, and comply with testing and contact tracing. He must focus in particular on rural Americans who are Trump supporters and are resistant to any public health measures. COVID will likely continue on through much of 2021 in its acute phase and he is going to need to keep the country patient and more united to minimize the damage. A public dashboard and measurement system and closer cooperation with the states to get them vital tests and PPE will be a high priority.  Cleanup on Aisle Trump  3. And more COVID, COVID, COVID (Congress): Congress must finally pass a COVID relief bill and Biden must arm wrestle with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to make sure it happens. Without paid medical leave, extending unemployment, and relief for states and small business who have to close, the pandemic will be more difficult for Americans and more difficult to bring under control. Assistance to states should make increased funding for Medicaid a high priority.  4. The COVID aftermath: The impact of delayed cancer and blood pressure screenings plus mental health and addiction challenges argues for coming together to meet these needs that have been ignored for too long. Biden should create a non-partisan commission to go after all the lessons we have learned during the pandemic. This should involve reinvestment and reform of our public health agencies and preparedness, including a permanent response apparatus that no future president can sweep aside, as Trump did. Innovations like telemedicine and virtual care should be extended permanently.  5.Cleanup on Aisle Trump: Through executive action, Trump has tilted the health care playing field to be increasingly unfair and uneven, particularly to marginalized communities. But what has been done through executive action can be almost entirely undone the same way. The public charge rule discourages immigrants from using their legal benefits. Medicaid work requirements discriminate against low-income people. The administration has also acted to discriminate against transgender Americans and weaken protections for Americans with disabilities. On Day One, Biden should bring all of these to an end — or start the process to undo them.  6. Address racial health disparities: The pandemic gave wide public visibility to the far from equal death rates and COVID cases in white communities versus Black, Latino and Native American communities. Racial injustice has been put front and center for Americans to see and react to. Biden should not let moments like these pass without addressing some of the blatant inequities that cause Black Americans to die at much higher rates not just from COVID, but from heart disease, from cancer, in childbirth, and in virtually every part of the health care system.  COVID and health care workers:COVID is killing health care workers. Where's the outrage? Why don't we try to stop this?  7. Repair the damage Trump has done to the Affordable Care Act: Millions have been added to the rolls of the uninsured under Trump. If he controls Congress, Biden could turn this around by pressing for an expansion package like the one passed by the House. That seems unlikely, but it is possible to fix some of the sabotage that makes it difficult to enroll and make people aware that it can be done. That should begin with a special enrollment period to sign up people who have lost their coverage.  Fixing health care costs  8. Address drug costs, finally: Trump spent four years promising to take on drug costs. Unfortunately his rhetoric didn’t lead to any action except a last-minute promise of a “discount card” which would take money from the Medicare Trust Fund, not the pharmaceutical industry. Biden and his team have some limited authority to directly take on Medicare Part D drug costs as well as hospital-based costs. Given the number of Americans who say they can’t afford their prescriptions, the time for action is Year One.  9. Improve health care affordability: Due to Trump’s mismanagement, Biden inherits a Medicare program projected to be insolvent in 2024. Biden should be able to avoid cutting any benefits for seniors if he pressures the health care system to manage costs better. This includes amping up the incentive programs inside Medicare and Medicaid for avoiding unnecessary admissions and eliminating some of the excess profits of the private sector.  10. Build consensus for broader coverage reforms: Biden wants to provide an option for everyone in the country to buy a Medicare-type plan. Even though that is unlikely with this Congress, he can set the stage by approving similar plans in states through the waiver process, holding public hearings, and drawing attention to public demand.  ACA survival at stake:Weak Supreme Court case, real dangers for Americans  One of the most significant and immediate differences Biden can make is in personnel. More people who have been left out of the health care system must be involved in running it. For example, rather than have people who are hostile to programs for the disability community running those programs, he should place one of the many qualified people from the disability community in charge of major agencies. Inequalities in health care will be addressed more quickly if more people from underrepresented groups are put in positions of power. Scientists, doctors, nurses, and innovators — not ideologues, PR specialists and pharmaceutical executives — should populate Biden's health care agencies.  There is much to do. With a well thought out agenda, Biden can achieve both immediate relief for Americans and the start of needed structural reforms. Even if he doesn't have both houses of Congress, he can still be effective. He should use the Democratic-controlled House to stake out his principles, work with the Senate on what’s possible, and use the executive branch to right what wrongs he can to give people a better life. If Biden leads in health care, America will be back in other ways much more quickly.  Andy Slavitt is board chair of United States of Care, host of the In the Bubble podcast and a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors. A former health care industry executive, he ran the Affordable Care Act and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services from 2015 to 2017. Follow him on Twitter: @ASlavitt COVID, COVID and COVID: Top 10 ways Joe Biden can lead on health care, and why he should