The final presidential debate was less confrontational and included more discussion of the issues than the one we saw in September, perhaps because of the new mute button.  But President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden did spar over contentious topics like race, the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, health care and immigration at Belmont University in Nashville.  Moderator Kristen Welker of NBC was praised for her performance after Fox News' Chris Wallace failed to maintain order in the bruising first match-up.  Now that the debates are out of the way, the campaigns have a clear path to Election Day, which is 11 days away. Expect both campaigns to make final pushes in battleground states, such as Pennsylvania and Florida, in the days ahead. As of Thursday, 49 million Americans have already voted and election experts predict a historic turnout.  ☕ The latest:  The debate: Missed the debate? Here are our takeaways, top moments and fact check from Thursday night. Here's the full transcript.  Missed the debate? Here are our takeaways, top moments and fact check from Thursday night. Here's the full transcript. How they spun it: Both Biden and Trump's campaigns say they won Thursday's debate. Here's why.  Both Biden and Trump's campaigns say they won Thursday's debate. Here's why. Is Philly a battleground area?: Here's why former President Barack Obama campaigned there this week.  Here's why former President Barack Obama campaigned there this week. Debate fact check: We look into the candidates' claims on COVID-19, fracking, race and more.  We look into the candidates' claims on COVID-19, fracking, race and more. Where are Trump and Pence Friday?: Trump holds two rallies in Florida – in The Villages and Pensacola. Vice President Mike Pence casts his ballot in the morning in Indianapolis before holding events in Swanton, Ohio, and West Mifflin, Pennsylvania.  Trump holds two rallies in Florida – in The Villages and Pensacola. Vice President Mike Pence casts his ballot in the morning in Indianapolis before holding events in Swanton, Ohio, and West Mifflin, Pennsylvania. Where are Biden and Harris Friday?: Joe Biden will give a speech in Wilmington, Delaware, about his plans to address COVID-19. Sen. Kamala Harris is in Atlanta to encourage early voting.  Joe Biden will give a speech in Wilmington, Delaware, about his plans to address COVID-19. Sen. Kamala Harris is in Atlanta to encourage early voting. The future of the House: Trump says Republicans will regain a majority in the Democratic-held House of Representatives in the November election. Analysts predict otherwise.  📊 What the polls are saying:Biden leads Trump by 10 points in the most recent Quinnipiac University poll released Thursday.  📆 11 days until Election Day, 89 days until Inauguration Day, 70 days left in 2020.  🗳️ Voting: See USA TODAY's Voter Guide for information on registering to vote, when your state begins voting and what the candidates think about the issues.  We will update this article throughout the day. You can follow all of USA TODAY's politics reporters on Twitter or subscribe to our daily On Politics newsletter.  Trump says Sudan will normalize relations with Israel  President Donald Trump announced Friday that Sudan has agreed to begin normalizing relations with Israel, just days after his administration said it would take the North African country off the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism.  The details of the Sudan-Israel agreement, coming just days before the Nov. 3 election, were not immediately clear. Trump announced the news as he spoke with the leaders of Sudan and Israel on speaker phone in front of reporters, who had been called into the Oval Office.  "The state of Israel and the Republic of Sudan have agreed to make peace," Trump told reporters.  A statement from the White House was less sweeping in its description of the deal.  "The leaders agreed to the normalization of relations between Sudan and Israel and to end the state of belligerence between their nations," the statement read.  – Deirdre Shesgreen  Trump:Trump says Sudan will normalize relations with Israel, days after he moved to lift terrorism designation  Biden defends son Hunter Biden during debate  Biden sought to fend off questions about his son Hunter Biden and potential conflicts of interest overseas during the last presidential debate, saying he’s "not taken a penny from any foreign source at any point in my life," after Trump raised allegations that the former vice president made money in a business scheme involving China with his son.  'Nothing was unethical':Joe Biden defends Hunter Biden under pressure from Trump in debate  Trump defends separating migrant children from parents  Trump said during the debate that only immigrants with the “lowest IQ” attend their immigration hearings.  His comment came after moderator Kristen Welker asked if his administration had plans to reunite the hundreds of children who remain separated from their parents at the border. A recent court filing revealed that parents of 545 immigrant children separated at the border have not been found.  Trump sidestepped the question, instead attacking a policy from President Barack Obama's administration known as “catch-and-release,” where immigrants were released from federal custody to await their court hearings, claiming many of them never showed up.  “Only the really … I hate to say this … those with the lowest IQ, they might come back,” Trump said.  – Rick Jervis  'They are so well taken care of':Trump defends separating migrant children from parents  Tom Ridge endorses Biden  Tom Ridge, a decorated Vietnam veteran, Republican congressman and two-time governor of Pennsylvania, became the first secretary of the Department of Homeland Security in 2003 under George W. Bush. Ridge has joined a group that has grown to more than 600 national security officials, including more than 20 four-star officers, to endorse former Vice President Joe Biden for president.  Ridge told USA TODAY he's not voting for Trump because of a "litany of objections and concerns I have about the rule of law, about the Constitution, about his push back against the institution, about his preference for his own abilities, as opposed to the military, as opposed to the intelligence community. The list is almost endless."  Earlier this week, former CIA Director John Brennan said he hopes Trump gets "soundly spanked by the electorate."  TGIF  By the way, congrats on making it through another week! Here are some of our most popular political stories and investigations from this week: Election 2020 live updates: After a more civil final debate, Trump and Pence head to battleground states, Biden to talk COVID