MILWAUKEE — In the small, bellwether city of Reedsburg, Wisconsin, one bar owner has been interviewed by CNN, Reuters, Agence France-Presse and French TV.  "It's hilarious," said Kari Walker, whose city and county (Sauk) typify the swingiest tendencies of this battleground state at the forefront of the 2020 election.  "I think all the journalists are hoping that somebody in an interview is going to help them break the code, crack the puzzle, and they're going to figure out why Sauk County has picked the winner (so often), and 'Who is Sauk County going to pick this time?'" said Walker, co-owner of Beastro & Barley, a downtown tavern and restaurant.  What explains the big pendulum swings in some communities at a time when the American electorate has never seemed so dug in and entrenched?  And what role will these places play in next month's election?  Wisconsin's "Obama-Trump communities" offer some hints. These are places that voted for Democrat Barack Obama in 2012 and Republican Donald Trump in 2016.  There are 536 of them in Wisconsin, and 24 in Sauk County alone. They represent almost 30% of the state's municipalities. They are overwhelmingly white. They are mostly small. Only 10 of them have more than 10,000 people (the biggest is the city of Fond du Lac). They are mostly found in Wisconsin’s more lightly populated western half. And by definition, they are places where partisan loyalties and ideology are weaker than they are in the reddest and bluest corners of the state.  Reedsburg (population 9,639) is one of them.  It voted Democratic for president in 2008 and 2012, U.S. Senate in 2012 and 2018 and governor in 2018.  It voted Republican for president in 2016, governor in 2010, 2012 and 2014, and Senate in 2010 and 2016.  It chose the winning candidate each time.  'We're in the eye of the storm'  About an hour’s drive northwest of the state capital of Madison, Reedsburg sits in a county that was decided by 109 votes in the 2016 presidential race, in a region (the "Driftless Area") that produced some of the largest shifts in the country four years ago.  "We're in the eye of the storm," said Scott Frostman, the Republican chair in Sauk County, which has also seen political swings at the local level, with conservatives taking over the county board this year.  Obama-Trump communities were key to Trump's 2016 victory in Wisconsin.  And their voting history points to what a massive wild card they could be in 2020.  Collectively, they voted for Obama by 9 points in 2012 and for Trump by 12 points in 2016. That 21-point swing was three times larger than the shift in the statewide vote. It produced a net gain of about 85,000 votes for the GOP, far bigger than Trump’s statewide margin (22,748).  “Wisconsin is, in the purest sense, a swing state,” says Rich Gorka, spokesman for the Trump campaign. “You don’t have to look further than the (recent) electoral past to understand there are swing voters in the state of Wisconsin.”  In fact, two years after swinging to Trump, many of these cities, towns and villages swung back to the Democrats in 2018.  The mid-term election underscored a key point about these communities: they are not marching (or swinging) in lockstep.  The 2018 political map “shows movement in multiple directions simultaneously," said political scientist Barry Burden of the University of Wisconsin-Madison.  Almost a quarter of Wisconsin’s Obama-Trump communities voted Democratic for governor and Senate in 2018. About 40% of them voted Democratic for Senate but Republican for governor. And a third voted Republican in both races.  More:Facing fire from the right and left, Sen. Susan Collins beckons voters to political center  Some communities voted for the GOP by even larger margins than they had in 2014 or 2016. That suggests those places are part of a broader rural realignment toward Republicans (and that Obama's strength in these communities was a bit of an aberration).  But others snapped back to the Democrats, consistent with a zig-zag history of rejecting the party in power. In 2004, these same Obama-Trump communities voted collectively for Republican George W. Bush by a single point. Four years later, they voted for Democrat Obama by 17 points. The lurch to the left in 2008 was almost as big as the lurch to the right in 2016.  In the coming years, Wisconsin's status as a swing state will rest heavily on how competitive Democrats are with the state's huge pool of rural and blue-collar white voters. That means that the political course these communities follow will be a "key question for the future of Wisconsin politics," Burden said.  One message of the 2018 mid-terms is that Trump may do even better this fall in some of the places where he enjoyed his biggest surge of support four years ago.  But in others, his remarkable 2016 success may be very hard to replicate.  "If the final tide runs pro-Biden, as it currently seems to be, then I would expect that those communities will swing back further than the average statewide swing — not just in Wisconsin, but across the Blue Wall," said Princeton political scientist Christopher Achen, who has analyzed Trump's 2016 surge in the "Blue Wall" states of Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.  The Obama-Trump communities also shed light on a recurring debate over how to interpret election swings at the local, state and national level. Do they mostly reflect changes in how people are voting — or changes in who is voting?  Reedsburg voted Democratic for president by 20 points in 2008, Republican for governor by 8 points in 2010, Democratic for president by 15 points in 2012, Republican for governor by 2 points in 2014, Republican for president by 8 points in 2016 and Democratic for governor by 7 points in 2018.  Somersaults and back flips  That looks like a lot of voters are doing somersaults, flipping back and forth between the parties.  But the makeup of the electorate is changing a great deal over the course of these election cycles. The state’s voter file shows that in Reedsburg, almost a quarter of the 4,120 people that voted in 2012 didn’t vote in 2016 (and were replaced by an almost equal number of new voters). More than a quarter of the people who voted in 2016 didn’t vote in 2018.  A large fraction of the electorate in this small, politically purple city is turning over from one cycle to another, as a result of people dying, moving, becoming old enough to vote for the first time or skipping some elections while turning out for others.  “We know that Wisconsin is the land of the ticket splitter and zigzagger (but) our analysis also finds big changes in who actually turns out to vote from election to election,” said Ben Wikler, state chairman of the Democratic Party of Wisconsin. “Very often the swing from 2012 to 2016 is more about who voted than about how individual people changed their… vote.”  But Wikler is not suggesting it’s entirely about turnout, either. Changes in who turned out can’t explain the magnitude of the 2016 shift in many places.  Take the city of Boscobel in the southwestern corner of Wisconsin. It voted for Obama (and against Republican Mitt Romney) by 33 points in 2012. Then it voted for Trump (and against Democrat Hillary Clinton) by 6 points in 2016. The voter file tells us that about a quarter of the Boscobel electorate changed between those two elections.  More:Who's undecided? Donald Trump's toughest hurdle to pull off a win: Most minds are made up  That may seem like a lot. But it's not nearly enough to plausibly explain the city’s 39-point swing. Whether they were voting on economics or immigration or hated Clinton or loved Trump or just wanted a change, there were lots of Obama-Trump voters in places like Boscobel. In 200 of the state's 500-plus Obama-Trump communities, the swing in the presidential margin from 2012 to 2016 was greater than 30 points.  Based on voter files and statistical models, the progressive analytics firm Catalist estimated that at least half the presidential shift in Wisconsin four years ago came from voters switching from Obama to Trump (as opposed to changes in who turned out).  A forthcoming study by Achen and Jeremy Darrington of Princeton contends that vote-switching played an even bigger role than that. The study dissects Trump's gains four years ago in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.  It concludes that in Michigan and Pennsylvania, changes in turnout (especially Trump's mobilization of habitual nonvoters) and vote-switching (voters converting from Obama to Trump) both played an important role.  But in Wisconsin, Trump's gains from mobilizing nonvoters were offset by the fact that many 2012 Romney voters stayed home or voted third-party in 2016.  Vote-switching (Obama-to-Trump) was the dominant factor in Trump's Wisconsin victory, according to this analysis.  “Some people keep thinking it’s all about turnout. And yes, that is important. But persuasion is still a part of it. There are still more ‘persuadables’ out there than either side wants to admit,” Mark Jefferson, executive director of the Republican Party of Wisconsin, said in an interview earlier this year.  “You simply have to do both turnout and persuasion to have a shot in 2020," said Wikler, the state Democratic chair. "There are a lot of conflicted voters in Wisconsin who powerfully identify with issues and values on both sides of the political aisle. Democrats can’t write off anyone or take anyone for granted.”  Or any community, no matter how small. Because of their size, the average Republican gain in Wisconsin's Obama-Trump communities in 2016 was only about 160 votes. But those small cities, towns and villages added up in a way that was crucial to the outcome.  Walker, co-owner of Reedsburg's "Beastro & Barley," is one of those swing voters contributing to her state's twists and turns.  She's "pro-life" and was a longtime Republican, voting for Romney in 2012. But she can't abide Trump and thinks the GOP has abandoned fiscal responsibility.  "I do feel like there's no party for me," she said.  Walker voted for third-party candidate Evan McMullin in 2016. But this time she'll vote for Democrat Joe Biden, partly because Sauk County was so close last time. She sees it as a reminder to make her vote count.  This reporter first interviewed Walker in 2017 and again in 2018, when her bar was called the Touchdown Tavern.  Reuters visited her tavern two years ago. Then CNN showed up in 2019 to discuss the Trump impeachment fight.  "I say it to every single journalist. At any given time, half the people sitting up there at the counter are Republicans and half of them are Democrats," Walker said.  This summer, her bar went international. She was interviewed by Agence France-Presse, the global news agency headquartered in Paris. Then came La Chaine Info, a French news channel.  "In a million years I just could never have imagined anything like it," she says of the ongoing attention and interest that traces back to the tantalizing political track record — and clout — of towns and cities like Reedsburg scattered around Wisconsin. 3 out of 10 Wisconsin communities voted for Obama then Trump. How will they swing this time?