Christopher Coyne  Opinion contributor  The news today is distressing. People are inundated with endless updates about the COVID-19 pandemic, violence associated with protests, the ongoing conversation about policing in American society and strong political divisions during an election year.  It's not surprising then that American adults surveyed this summer reported increased stress, depression and substance abuse.  In this sea of negativity, it is easy to forget the power of people to make the world a better place. Right now, ordinary people around the country are working together to help others. These efforts are crucial not only to help those in need but to maintain a free society.  The centrality of civil society — private people coming together to effectively solve problems — is a defining feature of American life. In the 1830s, Alexis de Tocqueville, a French diplomat and political scientist, traveled throughout America and published his observations in his book, "Democracy in America."  He noted that America was highly decentralized and that diverse people joined together to solve a variety of problems. As Tocqueville wrote, “Americans of all ages, conditions and all dispositions constantly unite together” to solve community problems. These collective efforts played two important roles that remain relevant today.  Local efforts meet immediate needs  The first was resolving immediate problems facing communities. The specifics of these challenges are context dependent and require localized solutions. People have the power to come together to effectively help their fellow community members by leveraging their local knowledge of the best way to provide value-added assistance.  Today, such efforts can be found throughout America.  People’s Grab-N-Go, a food distribution program in Washington Park, Chicago, emerged in the wake of the suspension of the city’s public school food distribution program at the end of May. In response, members of the community came together to create a network to distribute food and toiletries to those in need.  A key part of the initiative’s success was reliance on members of the community who had a sense of local needs. Similar groups exist throughout the country.  In the Washington, D.C. area, local groups have emerged to assist members of the community who are high-risk or quarantined. The type of assistance provided varies greatly and includes running errands, delivering groceries, assisting with child and pet care, and connecting with those isolated, over technology, to provide human interaction.  In addition to immediate problem solving, Tocqueville emphasized a second benefit of collective efforts — they allow people to interact with one another and learn to live with others who hold diverse views. Working together requires respecting different perspectives and understanding where others are coming from.  These interactions generate the direct effects of providing immediate assistance, but also the indirect effect of learning about others. As Tocqueville put it, “Sentiments and ideas renew themselves, the heart is enlarged, and the human mind is developed only by the reciprocal action of men upon one another.”  He emphasized that there was nothing inherent in self-governing democracies to facilitate this understanding of others. It required effort and commitment on the part of citizens through participation in associations.  Solutions found in our communities  As the daily news make clear, Americans face real challenges. Many are frustrated by the ineffectiveness of the federal government to address these issues. Perhaps the answers are not to be found in Washington, D.C. As Tocqueville emphasized, the most effective solutions to the challenges we face are often found in our own communities. The good news is that the Tocquevillian spirit of association is alive and well in America.  While small-scale local efforts to help our fellow human beings will rarely make national headlines, they are crucial for helping those in need and for preventing political differences from devolving into democratic decay.  During election season it is important to remember that being a participant in a self-governing democratic system involves much more than voting. It involves embracing the Tocquevillian challenge of helping those in need while fostering an environment of mutual respect and learning that appreciates a diversity of views and interests.  The future of a free and liberal society depends on meeting this challenge head on.  Christopher Coyne is professor of economics at George Mason University and a senior fellow at the Institute for Humane Studies. Why helping neighbors in need is as important for America as voting