There's nothing better than a novel with an unpredictable plot. And "White Ivy," Susie Yang's debut novel (Simon & Schuster, 368 pp., ★★★★ out of four) out this week, is exactly that.  "Ivy Lin was a thief but you would never know it to look at her," the book begins. Little do readers know, settling in to read, that Ivy Lin is many other things she doesn't appear to be.  The question of how far one a person will go to get what she wants is explored in many novels. But how far Ivy will go is another question altogether, as is what she's willing to lose along the way, giving the book the feel of a thriller, but not in the classic sense. It keeps readers on their toes the entire way.  Ivy, a Chinese immigrant, grows up in a low-income neighborhood in a suburb of Boston and attends a school filled with classmates who are everything Ivy is not – trendy, preppy and American. Ivy makes choices that blur right and wrong as she walks the line of assimilating with her peers and dealing with parents who don't typically agree with her attempts to fit in.  In her attempts fit in, Ivy uses tactics learned from her grandmother, Meifeng, who takes advantage of Ivy's innocent looks and trains her to steal goods for Meifeng from Goodwill and tag sales. Eventually, Ivy begins to thieve from box stores on her own – coveting items her family won't provide for her such as tampons, disposable razors, Valentine's Day cards, lip gloss and even a diary.  But the trinkets don't satisfy Ivy. The object of her greatest desire isn't an object at all but a boy: Gideon Speyer.  But Gideon, isn't just a boy or a love interest in Ivy's eyes. The preppy son of a senator, Gideon has everything Ivy wants – wealth and an "all-American," clean-cut image; he's the kind of boy who attends Sunday school and picks daisies for his mother on Mother's Day.  Ivy admires Gideon from afar until his birthday party, an event she lies about to attend. In a cruel twist of fate, her fib leads her parents to send her away to China. But Ivy's time in China, during which she is pampered by family, only stokes her desire for wealth and power.  When she returns stateside, her family has moved away – from Boston and from Gideon. Years later, some time after she returns to Massachusetts, Gideon reappears at the forefront of Ivy's world.  But only on character in the book seems to truly know Ivy Lin as the reader does. Her best friend from childhood, Roux, though not the object of her aspirational affection, ends up tangled in her story — he becomes a subplot entwined with Ivy's aspirations and one that turns dark.  Just how far Ivy is willing to go to get what she wants may seem unsavory, but Yang's expert character development leads the reader to grapple with Ivy's choices and morality just as much as she does as Ivy pursues the aspirational life she crafted during adolescence. 'White Ivy' review: Susie Yang takes readers to the edge with an unpredictable plot