As President Donald Trump digs his heels in and refuses to concede to President-elect Joe Biden over the U.S. election, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has already moved on.  During a regularly scheduled, weekly question-and-answer session with lawmakers in Parliament on Wednesday, Johnson was asked by an opposition lawmaker named Angela Eagle to offer some remarks about Trump's false insistence that if it were not for voter fraud he would have easily won the election. Johnson, referring to Trump, responded in error that he had a good relationship with the "previous president."  Trump may be pushing unsubstantiated claims of voter wrongdoing, but one thing that is not in doubt is that he remains president until Biden's inauguration on January 20.  Election 2020: GOP senator says he'll 'step in' if Biden doesn't start receiving briefings  Eagle, of Britain's Labour Party, described Trump's behavior as "both embarrassing for him and dangerous for American democracy." Eagle referred to Trump as Johnson's "erstwhile best friend" because of the many comparisons that have been drawn between the two leaders over their populist politics on immigration, the coronavirus pandemic and other issues.  'Our time is far from over': Without Donald Trump, what happens to global populism?  Ever since Biden became president-elect over the weekend, Johnson has repeatedly said in public he looks forward to working with Biden on "strengthening the partnership between our countries and to working with him on our shared priorities." Johnson has characterized these priorities as combatting climate change and supporting the NATO military alliance, two topics that Trump has clashed with European leaders over in recent years.  Johnson was in the first round of calls Biden made to world leaders after his election victory. Britain's leader characterized their exchange as "excellent" and "refreshing."  USA TODAY interview: Boris Johnson, Britain's flamboyant and gaffe-prone politician  However, some British media commentators have noted that while Johnson has spent the last four years trying to charm Trump and keep on his good side, he may have a tougher time with Biden, partly because Johnson's plan to leave the European Union – Brexit – represents a theoretical risk to peace in Northern Ireland. Biden has Irish roots.  And partly because of some alleged lingering bad blood between Johnson and former President Barack Obama, who Johnson previously accused in a newspaper article of removing a bust of his hero Winston Churchill from the White House's Oval Office because of his "part-Kenyan ancestry" and "ancestral dislike of the British empire."  Obama said he had the bust removed because "there are only so many tables where you can put busts otherwise it starts to looks a little cluttered."  Obama added that as the first African-American president, a bust of civil rights icon Martin Luther King would be more "appropriate" to remind him "of all the hard work of a lot of people who somehow allow me to have the privilege of holding this office." Britain's Boris Johnson refers to Trump as America's 'previous president'