WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump again attacked Rep. Ilhan Omar at a campaign stop Tuesday, when he referenced her birth country of Somalia, drawing a rebuke from the Minnesota Democrat.  At a campaign rally near Pittsburgh, Trump said of the Somalian-born Omar: "She is telling us how to run our country. How did you do where you came from? How is your country doing?"  The president, who is trailing Democratic challenger Joe Biden in the polls, later added: "We don't need socialists, and we don't need communists telling us how to run our country."  Omar, who has been an American citizen for two decades, slammed Trump in a tweet.  “Firstly, this is my country & I am a member of the House that impeached you,” Omar wrote. “Secondly, I fled civil war when I was 8. An 8-year-old doesn’t run a country even though you run our country like one.”  Trump has often attacked Omar and other members of "The Squad," women of color in Congress who advocate more progressive social policies. The group, which includes New York congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, has chided Trump for seeking to divide the country by race and ethnicity.  During his Pittsburgh rally, Trump took more shots at Ocasio-Cortez by saying: "Not a good student, not good at anything, but she's got a good line of crap, I will tell you."  A year ago, Trump smiled as supporters chanted "send her back" during one of his attacks on Omar and other lawmakers of color; Omar said Trump's "lies" were putting her life "at risk."  Trump's latest attack on Omar drew scorn on social media.  "Racism is the glue that holds Trump’s support together," tweeted Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for former Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada. "There is a mountain of research since 2016 making this clear. He does not care that he is probably endangering Congresswoman Omar. We are in very dangerous territory."  Tennis star Martina Navratilova asked Trump: "Will you make fun of absolutely everyone who is not your sycophant? Or just immigrant women of color?"  In her latest reply to Trump, Omar included a video clip of a character from the film "Mean Girls" asking a question of a rival:  "Why are you so obsessed with me?"  More:Ilhan Omar on Trump: This is 'a fight for the soul of our nation'  More:Trump says he'll win Minnesota in 2020 because of Rep. Ilhan Omar  Trump campaign aides are putting a heavy emphasis on Omar's home state of Minnesota, which Trump narrowly lost to Hillary Clinton four years ago.  Biden is leading Trump by 10.2 points in Minnesota, according to the average of recent polls compiled by the Real Clear Politics website. Rep. Ilhan Omar responds to President Donald Trump's attacks: 'This is my country'