In a 52-48 vote on Monday night, Amy Coney Barrett became the fifth woman to be confirmed to the United States Supreme Court.  Coney Barrett, a 48-year-old U.S. Court of Appeals judge nominated by President Donald Trump, fills the seat left by Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a staunch liberal and feminist icon who died Sept. 18.  Coney Barrett will join two other women, Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, on the bench. The first woman confirmed to the Supreme Court, former Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, retired in 2006.  Earlier this year, to commemorate the 100th anniversary of ratification of the 19th Amendment, which secured the right to vote for American women, USA TODAY released Women of the Century, a comprehensive look at women from around the U.S. who made an impact on their community and country over the past 100 years.  Today, we're republishing the profiles of the women who have served on the Supreme Court, breaking some of the strongest barriers as they ascended to the highest court in the land.  Sandra Day O’Connor First woman named to the U.S. Supreme Court (1930- ) SANDRA DAY OCONNOR PHOTO: Paul Morse for USA TODAY NETWORK, ILLUSTRATION: USA TODAY NETWORK Sandra Day O’Connor gained international recognition as the first woman to serve as a U.S. Supreme Court justice. Appointed by Republican President Ronald Reagan in 1981, she held a seat on the nation’s highest court for nearly 25 years. The court grew more conservative during her tenure, and O’Connor frequently became the key vote that determined important cases. O'Connor was born in El Paso, but she is Arizonan through and through. Raised on the dusty, isolated Lazy B Ranch in southeastern Arizona, she was a pioneer all her life. She enrolled at Stanford University at age 16 and graduated from law school at 22. O’Connor was Arizona’s first woman to serve as Senate majority leader, and then became a trial and appeals court judge in the state. After her retirement from the Supreme Court in 2006, she continued to advocate for civics education in the U.S. and judicial independence across the globe. Share this story  Share this story on Twitter  Share this story on Facebook  Email this story  Copy this url to your clipboard Link copied to clipboard Share this story  Sonia Sotomayor First Latina Supreme Court justice (1954- ) Sonia Sotomayor Photo: Jasper Colt, USA TODAY, Illustration: USA TODAY Network Sonia Sotomayor, a native of the Bronx, is America's first Latina Supreme Court justice. She has served as an associate justice since 2009. The daughter of immigrants from Puerto Rico, Sotomayor graduated summa cum laude from Princeton in 1976, then attended Yale Law School, where she edited the law journal. After graduating in 1979, Sotomayor worked as an assistant district attorney and in private practice in New York. Sotomayor was appointed as a federal judge in the Southern District of New York in 1992 by President George H.W. Bush, a Republican. Five years later, Republican senators delayed Sotomayor's appointment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for a year over fears she might be headed to the Supreme Court. Democratic President Barack Obama nominated Sotomayor to the Supreme Court when Justice David Souter retired. She wrote a memoir, "My Beloved World," in 2013. Women of the Century: Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Eleanor Roosevelt and Sonia Sotomayor on DC list of influential women Share this story  Share this story on Twitter  Share this story on Facebook  Email this story  Copy this url to your clipboard Link copied to clipboard Share this story Meet the four women who preceded Amy Coney Barrett on the Supreme Court