WASHINGTON – Vice President Mike Pence and Sen. Kamala Harris battled over taxes, the environment and the Trump administration’s response to the coronavirus in a debate that gave Americans a more policy-focused and less fiery picture of where the two campaigns stand with weeks to go before the Nov. 3 election.  The 90-minute exchange, the only vice presidential debate of the 2020 cycle, became – as expected – a battle over President Donald Trump, who remained at the White House Wednesday fighting his own case of coronavirus even as he tries to reset a campaign that polling shows is losing ground in several battleground states.  From its earliest moments, the discussion was far more civil than the widely panned debate last week between Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden. Though both Pence and Harris came in hot at times and drew sharp contrasts on policies they had far more time to discuss issues.  "We’re about freedom and respecting the freedom of the American people," Pence argued during a discussion on the pandemic.  Harris fired back: "You respect the American people when you tell them the truth."  Moments:'I'm speaking' vs. 'If I may finish': Pence, Harris spar over COVID-19  Fly:An unexpected guest: Fly lands on Mike Pence's head during debate, goes viral  The two candidates sat 12 feet apart and were separated by plexiglass, inescapable evidence that the coronavirus pandemic has infected every aspect of American life – including the White House, where Pence has been forced to explain why he has not quarantined amid an outbreak of cases among Trump's top staff.  The sparse and socially distanced members of the audience all wore masks – and kept them on – after they were admonished not to take them off as Trump's supporters did in Cleveland last week.  As had been largely expected, Harris sought to keep the focus on the Trump administration’s perceived missteps, particularly on the high number of COVID-19 deaths. Pence, by contrast, ripped a page from the Trump playbook by arguing that Biden had been co-opted by the party’s left-wing – and that Harris was an embodiment of that movement.  Harris accused Trump of calling those who serve in the military “suckers” and “losers,” terms in news reports that Trump has denied using. And she attacked the Trump administration for trying to abolish the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration's signature health care law. In one particularly poignant moment in the debate, Pence pressed Harris on whether she would support adding justice to the Supreme Court, as some Democrats have called for. Harris did not answer the question directly.  There were several notable instances when neither candidate answered directly, such as on a question about whether they had spoken with their respective presidential candidates about how to handle a transfer of power in the event that they become incapacitated. That issue has raised the stakes of the vice presidential contest for some given that Trump is 74 and Biden is 77.  Analysts said Pence held his own during the debate – and even won a supportive tweet from the president for his performance. But with fewer than four weeks to go and millions of voters already cast, some analysts said Pence needed to hit a home run at the debate to help Trump in the face of worsening poll numbers.  Both candidates probably did what they had to do, several experts said, and like most vice presidential debates, it likely won’t change many voters’ minds.  "Sen. Harris turned in the best debate performance she has given all year. She wove together policy statistics, personal stories, and well-timed barbs -- all while continuing to smile and remind Pence when he interrupted her that she was speaking,” said Lara Brown, director of the Graduate School of Political Management at the George Washington University. “Still…Pence delivered his answers in a calm and authoritative manner. The bottom line is that both reassured their respective partisans of their political competency and policy chops.”  Aaron Kall, a debate coach at the University of Michigan, argued that Pence walked into the debate with lower expectations and appeared to clear that bar.  “There was no major moment in the debate that will move the political needle or radically move independent voters in the race,” Kall said. “Pence's solid rebound performance may be able to provide some momentum to the campaign and energize President Trump ahead of his final two debate performances."  — John Fritze, Ledyard King, David Jackson  Biden-Harris campaign on Pence: ‘He didn’t just mansplain. He man-dodged.'  In a post-debate phone call with reporters, the Biden-Harris campaign said Pence dodged questions, acted disrespectfully to Harris and failed to outline a plan to combat the nation’s coronavirus pandemic.  “Tonight you saw a contrast on stage,” said Liz Allen, communications director for Harris, adding that Harris outlined how a Biden-Harris administration “would get the coronavirus outbreak under control, expand access to quality and affordable health care and address the threat of climate change.”  “What we saw from Mike Pence was more of the same lies and the same interruptions in a different city.”  Biden senior advisor Symone Sanders said Harris made a “strong and clear case” for why the Biden-Harris ticket “will stand up for middle-class families, unite this country and win the battle for the soul of the nation.”  “She made history tonight as the first Black woman to participate in a vice presidential debate. There was a lot of talk about how she would do. Let’s just say she passed with flying colors,” Sanders said, making a not-so-subtle reference to the fly that was spotted on Pence’s head for a portion of the debate.  “Mike Pence used his time to evade, to lie, to attack and talk over Kamala Harris and Susan Page. He didn’t just mansplain. He man-dodged,” Sanders said.  Former South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg, a onetime Democratic presidential candidate who role-played Pence during Harris’ mock debates, said Pence was “not able to do what he needed to do tonight, which was to somehow change the dynamic of the race.”  “The VP kept trying to create this picture that everything’s just going along just fine in America,” he said in a post-debate interview on MSNBC. “And she spoke right through that, explaining how the failures of this presidency have led us to where we are.”  He called it a “command performance” for Harris.  “The only real surprise, I would say, was the disrespect that he showed for the moderator and for the rules,” Buttigieg said of Pence. “He’s generally somebody who tries to be very gentlemanly. I don’t know if that was a factor of being spooked about what’s going on with the polls. I don’t know if he was trying to impress his boss. You know often there’s an audience of one you have to think about when you’re part of the Trump machine.”  — Joey Garrison  The question mark over a 'peaceful transfer of power'  In one of the final questions of the night, moderator Susan Page asked both candidates how they would ensure a peaceful transfer of power if Biden and Harris should win in November. President Trump has repeatedly refused to commit to a peaceful transfer of power.  Harris pointed to the broad coalition she and Biden built, which includes Republicans including Cindy McCain, the wife of the late Sen. John McCain, and former Secretary of State Colin Powell.  Harris said the Biden campaign believes "in the American people" and "in our democracy." She urged viewers to vote.  "We have within our power in these next 27 days to make the decision about what will be the course of our country for the next four years," she added.  On his responsibility, if Trump refuses a peaceful transfer of power, Pence insisted that he believes the Trump campaign would win re-election and accused Harris and Democrats of trying to overturn the 2016 election results.  "President Donald Trump has launched a movement of everyday Americans from every walk of life," Pence said. "And I have every confidence that this the same Americans that deliver that historic victory in 2016.  The question of whether Trump will concede a close election could become moot - Polls in the last week show the president trailing Biden by double digits.  — Courtney Subramanian  Harris dodges whether she supports expanding the Supreme Court  Pence tried to get Harris to answer a question that she and Biden have been dodging: Do they support expanding the Supreme Court as many liberals are advocating?  Pence said the public deserves to know, calling it a classic case if trying to change the rules if you can’t win by the rules.  Harris preferred to talk about Republicans’ decision to move forward with filling the current Supreme Court vacancy so close to an election.  “I’m so glad we went through a little history lesson. Let’s do that a little more,” she said. Harris went back to 1864, when she said Abraham Lincoln didn’t think it right to fill a vacancy 27 days before an election.  “The American people are voting right now and it should be their decision about who will serve on this most important body for a lifetime,” she said.  Pence noted that Harris hadn’t said whether she wants to expand the court.  “If you haven’t figured it out yet, the straight answer is, they are going to pack the Supreme Court,” he said.  Harris said Trump has been stacking the bench with people “who are purely ideological.” Of the 50 people Trump appointed to the appeals court, none are Black, she charged.  If Pence wants to talk about packing the court, she said, “let’s have that discussion.”  “I just want the record to reflect,” Pence said, “that she never answered the question.”  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Pence on Breonna Taylor: ‘I trust our justice system’  Pence and Harris disagreed whether “justice was served” in the case of Breonna Taylor, a 26-year-old woman in Louisville, Kentucky who was shot and killed by police officers during an attempted search for drugs and cash that went horribly wrong.  None of the three officers were charged with killing Taylor, an unarmed Black woman. One officer was charged of first-degree wanton endangerment.  “I don’t believe so,” Harris said when asked whether justice was served, adding that she was heartbroken talking with Taylor’s mother and family. “Her family deserves justice. Her life was taken unjustifiably.”  Pence said, “Our heart breaks for any American innocent life.” He added: “But I trust our justice system – a grand jury that reviewed the evidence.”  — Joey Garrison  Thank you, already!  It will almost certainly be the phrase that will pop up the most in the transcript of the first vice presidential debate: “Thank you, Vice President Pence”  There were far fewer interruptions during the debate Wednesday compared with the presidential debate, but Pence embraced a more common debate tactic that has often been used by members of both parties: Running way overtime to get in that last sentence or one more barb.  “Thank you, Vice President Pence,” moderator Susan Page of USA TODAY said over and over again to try to move the conversation on.  Pence even got a laugh line on the clock, according to reporters who were in the room with the two candidates. At one point, when Pence tried to ask for more time to respond to Harris, Page reluctantly said he could have 15 seconds.  "I've got to have more than that," Pence said, sending a ripple of laughter through the auditorium.  Though the interruptions were less severe, they did happen. Another phrase that came up frequently was from Harris: “I’m speaking,” she repeatedly said to Pence.  — John Fritze  Harris on Supreme Court, abortion rights  Harris turned a question about the future of abortion rights into an argument overfilling a seat on the Supreme Court.  Asked what her home state of California should do if Roe v. Wade is overturned, Harris segued to the ongoing fight over filling the Supreme Court seat left vacant by the recent death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Noting that the election is just 27 days away, Harris argued that the seat should be filled by whoever wins on Nov. 3.  On the subject of abortion, “I will always fight for a woman’s right to make a decision about her own body,” she said, emphasizing that the decision should rest with the woman – not Trump and Pence.  — Michael Collins, Salt Lake City  Harris attacks Trump over military  Sen. Kamala Harris accused President Donald Trump of calling those who serve in the military “suckers” and “losers,” terms in news reports that Trump denied using.  Harris said it was important to consider for the commander in chief that Trump asked at Arlington National Cemetery: “What’s in it for them?” She noted that Trump said the late Sen. John McCain didn’t deserve to be called a hero for his military service because he was a prisoner of war during Vietnam.  “This is very important when you want to talk about who is the current commander in chief, and what they care about what they don’t care about,” Harris said.  Pence, whose son serves in the military, said Trump respects and reveres the military.  “Any suggestion otherwise is ridiculous,” Pence said.  — Bart Jansen  Dodging questions a familiar theme  Both candidates tried to stay on message, which meant they weren’t particularly eager to answer questions that they saw as potentially problematic - especially on environmental issues.  For Pence, it was whether climate change is an “existential threat” that needs to be addressed with swift and aggressive action. Trump has questioned the science behind climate change and has called it a “hoax” despite assessments from his own administration that the threat is real and exacerbated by human activity.  "As I said, the climate is changing," Pence said without addressing the topic in any detail. "We’ll follow the science."  Then he pivoted back to a more favorable subject: taxes.  For Harris, it was the Green New Deal, the ultra-progressive plan to not only address climate change but to reconstruct the economy, which included a call for free housing for the poor and a quick end to fossil fuels.  Harris, who was a co-sponsor of the Green New Deal, declined to talk about the proposal but instead pivoted to the Biden’s plan to create millions of jobs in the renewable energy sector and eliminate carbon emissions by 2050. Biden has rejected the Green New Deal.  After dodging on the Green New Deal, she also went on the attack, saying “we have seen a pattern with this administration that they don’t believe in science.”  — Ledyard King  Pence accuses Biden of not helping slain aid worker  Pence invited the parents of a humanitarian aid worker who was killed in Syria to the debate to help him make a point during a discussion of global leadership.  “When Joe Biden was vice president, they hesitated for a month,” he said.  Mueller was abducted Aug. 4, 2013, and she endured rape and torture for 18 months. Her parents, Carl and Marsha Mueller have said the Obama administration vowed to do everything it could to investigate her abduction, but everything wasn’t enough.  Pence praised Trump for taking decisive action in killing one of Mueller’s Islamic State tormenters, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.  Harris said to the family that she knows about their daughter and she expressed her condolences.  “What happened should never have happened,” she said. “And I know Joe Biden feels the same way.”  — Maureen Groppe and Bart Jansen  Unsurprising review: Trump praises his vice president's performance  The world's most famous COVID-19 patient is weighing in on the debate, and, not surprisingly, President Trump is giving the nod to his vice president over Kamala Harris.  "Mike Pence is doing GREAT! She is a gaffe machine," Trump said in one of several items posted during the debate.  Among other posts, Trump replayed a clip from the debate and mocked Biden over China.  Trump's cheerleading drew mockery of its own.  "Pence and Trump have perfected the art of bullying the moderator, avoiding the questions and fostering a clown rodeo during debates," tweeted commentator Tim O'Brien.  – David Jackson  Pence seeks to paint Harris as liberal  One of Pence’s top goals in the debate Wednesday was to try to paint Harris as too liberal for the blue-collar voters in battleground states who backed President Barack Obama in the past but switched to President Donald Trump in 2016.  Pence hammered away on the point throughout the first hour of the debate – in one exchange asserting that Harris, a California Democrat, was “the most liberal member of the United States Senate in 2019, more liberal than Bernie Sanders.”  But for much of the debate, Pence focused those attacks directly at Joe Biden rather than Harris herself. Pence questioned Biden’s campaign’s position on taxes, accused the Democrats of taking environmental stances – such as on the Green New Deal -- that he claimed would “kill jobs.”  The move put Harris on defense several times, countering that Biden’s position was not to ban fracking, for instance, and not to raise taxes on Americans earning more than $400,000.  Biden has a long career as centrist Democrat in American politics, but the Trump campaign has frequently sought to paint the Biden-Harris ticket as being subsumed by the left-wing of the Democratic Party. The tension on that issue led to one of Biden’s most quoted moments in the presidential debate last week when he told Trump that “I am the Democratic Party.”  -- John Fritze  Harris says Trump ‘betrayed our friends’ overseas  Harris accused the Trump-Pence administration of being cozy with U.S. adversaries and betraying the trust of NATO allies overseas.  “You’ve got to be loyal to your friends,” Harris said. “What we’ve seen with Donald Trump is he has betrayed our friends and embraced dictators around the world. Let’s take for example Russia.”  Harris said Trump “took the word of Vladimir Putin over the U.S. intelligence community” when it came to Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  She said Trump has hurt America’s standing overseas because “Donald Trump doesn’t understand what it means to be honest.”  — Joey Garrison  Pence says climate is changing but downplays storms, fires  Pence, asked about whether he believes that climate change has made natural disasters worse over the years, said he believes the climate is changing but downplayed the severity of recent hurricanes and fires.  "The climate is changing. The issue is, what's the cause and what do we do about it," Pence said.  He continued by saying that a Biden administration would put the U.S. back into the Paris Accord, a 2015 climate agreement with nearly 200 countries that Trump pulled out of.  Pence said continued fires that have leveled communities on the West Coast could be helped with better forest management and said of hurricanes that "there are no more hurricanes today than there were 100 years ago."  — Christal Hayes  Harris: Trump and Pence lost trade war with China  Harris chided Pence for referring to the recent trade war with China as one of the Trump administration’s accomplishments.  “You lost that trade war,” she said. “You lost it.”  Harris said the trade war with Beijing has cost the U.S. manufacturing jobs and harmed the nation’s farmers, forcing many of them into bankruptcy.  “We’re looking at people who are trying to figure out how they're going to pay rent by the end of the month,” she said. “…This is where the economy is in America right now, and it is because of the catastrophe and the failure of leadership of this administration.”  — Michael Collins, Salt Lake City  Trade talk  On the subject of trade, Pence tried to attack Biden on China while Harris went after Pence for opposing the bailout of the auto industry.  Pence first disputed Harris’ critique of Trump’s handling of trade negotiations with China.  “Lost a trade war with China? Joe Biden’s never fought it,” Pence said.  He accused Biden of being a “cheerleader of Communist China through the last several decades.”  Harris responded that Biden “is responsible for saving America’s auto industry and you voted against it.” She was referring to Biden’s role, as Obama’s vice president, in helping auto manufacturers recover from the Great Recession and Pence’s opposition to the approach as a member of the House.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Pence and Harris spar over Obamacare  Harris attacked the Trump administration for trying to abolish the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration's signature health care law.  "If you have pre-existing conditions, heart disease, diabetes breast cancer - they're coming for you," Harris said.  The Trump administration has backed a Supreme Court challenge that could undo protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions.  About 100 million people in the U.S. could see higher premiums or out-of-pocket costs if the ACA’s pre-existing condition protection is repealed.  Pence called the ACA, also known as Obamacare, a "disaster." He claimed the Trump administration has a plan to improve health care and protect people with pre-existing conditions, which is already in place under Obamacare, but offered no details on a plan.  President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Sept. 24 to end surprise medical billing and protect people with pre-existing conditions, but the directive has no legal weight and did not detail how it would be implemented.  — Courtney Subramanian  Harris: Trump, Pence ‘don’t believe in science’  Harris slammed the Trump-Pence administration on environmental policy, accusing the administration of not “believing in science.”  “Joe understands that the west coast of our country is burning including my home state of California,” Harris said.  “Joe believes in science,” she said. “We’ve seen a pattern from this administration – and that’s they don’t believe in science.”  Harris did not directly address a question about her past support for the new Green New Deal. She pushed back at Pence’s charges that Biden wants to ban fracking.  “Joe Biden will not ban fracking,” she said.  Moderator Susan Page then asked Pence whether he believes climate change is an existential threat to the country.  “We’ll follow the science,” Pence said, but then quickly shifted, accusing Harris and Biden of wanting to raise taxes.  — Joey Garrison  Pence's interruptions drawing boos on social media  Pence has made his share of interruptions over both Harris and debate moderator Susan Page, and it hasn't gone unnoticed on social media.  "A white man talking over two women is a very 1950s approach to debating," tweeted Barack Obama administration official Chris Lu.  Republicans say Pence is just trying to set the record straight, but other observers said it has set a mood.  "Pence not exactly looking like a Happy Warrior," historian Michael Beschloss tweeted.  – David Jackson  Harris, Pence contrast on style, not just policy  In the first 30 minutes of the debate, the contrast between the liberal African American senator from California and the conservative vice president from Indiana wasn’t just policy, it was style as well.  Harris was animated, smiling often and repeatedly shaking her head when she disagreed with Pence. Pence was more measured, interrupting at times, telling her at one point “you’re entitled to your own opinion but not your facts.”  At one point, Harris talked about the “memorable” day that Biden offered her a place on the ticket.  “I though of my mother who came to the U.S. (from India) at the age of 19 … And the thought that I’d be sitting here I know would make her proud,” she said, as she briefly looked skyward. “She must looking down on us.  Pence graciously acknowledged her place in history.  “I never expected to be on the stage four years ago so I know the feeling,” he said.  — Ledyard King  Back-and-forth on Taxes  Pence said the “American economy” is on the ballot, in response to a question about taxes.  “You just heard Sen. Harris tell you, on Day 1, Joe Biden is going to raise your taxes,” Pence said.  Harris protested: “That’s not what I said.”  Pence then accused Biden of wanting to also “bury the economy under a Green New Deal,” abolish fossil fuels and ban fracking.  Harris retorted that she thought “this is supposed to be a debate based on facts.”  “You’re entitled to your own opinion but you’re not entitled to your own facts,” she said.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Harris attacks Trump taxes  Sen. Kamala Harris attacked President Donald Trump for how much he paid in income taxes, after the New York Times reported he paid $750 a year for two recent years.  “We now know Donald Trump owes and is in debt for $400 million,” Harris said in response to a question about greater transparency about the health of a president. “It’d be really good to know who the commander in chief owes money to because the American people have a right to know what is influencing the president’s decisions.”  “Donald Trump has been about covering up everything,” Harris added.  Vice President Mike Pence shook his head as Harris spoke. Pence said Trump has called the report inaccurate and that he paid tens of millions of dollars in payroll and property taxes.  Pence called Trump a businessman who created tens of thousands of jobs. Pence said Trump began four years ago to “turn this economy around, cutting taxes, rolling back regulations, fighting for free and fair trade.”  — Bart Jansen  Harris says she and Biden share same values  Harris said Biden chose her as his running mate because they share the same values.  “Joe and I were raised in a very similar way,” she said. “We were raised with values that are about our work, about the value and the dignity of public service, and about the importance of fighting for the dignity of all people.”  Harris said she and Biden “share a purpose, which is about lifting up the American people.”  — Michael Collins, Salt Lake City  Dodging the question  Pence didn’t answer the question posed by the moderator who asked he’s talked to Trump about what would happen if Trump can’t adequately do his job.  Under the 25th amendment, the president can temporarily transfer power to the vice president if he can’t sufficiently handle his duties. That could happen if, for example, the president’s COVID-19 illness worsens.  Instead, Pence accused Harris of playing politics by saying she wouldn’t take Trump’s word that a vaccine is safe. He also attacked the Obama administration’s handling of the swine flu.  "Harris also didn't tackle the question head-on either; instead, she talked about her qualifications for the job.  — Maureen Groppe  Harris says she wouldn't trust Trump's word on a vaccine  During a spirited back and forth with Pence over the Trump administration’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, Harris said she would only take a vaccine to treat COVID-19 if medical experts endorse it.  She made clear she would not do so if only Trump says to take the vaccine. “If the public health professionals, if Dr. Fauci, if the doctors tell us that we should take it, I’ll be the first in line to take it – absolutely,” Harris said. “But if Donald Trump tells us that we should take it, I’m not taking it.”  Pence accused Harris of “undermining the public confidence in a vaccine.”  — Joey Garrison.  Pence says administration trusts American people to follow guidelines despite White House outbreak  Vice President Mike Pence said the Trump administration has "great confidence" in the American people to follow federal health guidelines on stopping the spread of the coronavirus despite a Rose Garden event 11 days ago that has emerged as a potential super spreader event for senior adminsitration officials and congressional officials.  President Donald Trump, several White House officials and congressional allies tested positive for COVID-19 after attending an event to announce the president's nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court. Few people were spotted in masks and were seated shoulder to shoulder.  Pence said that "many of the people" at the veent were tested for coronavirus and pointed out that the event was outdoors.  "President Trump and I trust the American people to make choices in the best interest of their health," Pence said.  Pence accused Harris and former Vice President Joe Biden of focusing on coronavirus mandates, adding: "We’re about freedom and respecting the freedom of the American people."  – Courtney Subramanian  Harris: Trump administration 'inept' dealing with virus  Sen. Kamala Harris accused the Trump administration of hiding information about the severity and lethality of the coronavirus after learning about it in late January.  Parents worried about their children getting sick. Workers worried about losing their jobs. But the administration was inept for failing to describe the risks they faced and the precautions there were necessary, Harris said.  “The American people have had to sacrifice far too much because of the incompetence of this administration,” Harris said. “That is asking too much of the people.”  — Bart Jansen  Different candidates, different tone  Minutes into the presidential debate last month it was clear President Donald Trump came to the stage with a plan to aggressively confront Democrat Joe Biden.  It was equally clear just minutes into Wednesday’s vice presidential debate that both campaigns had reassessed their approach after that confrontation. Pence remained silent as Harris ripped into the Trump administration’s response to the coronavirus.  “This administration has forfeited their right to reelection,” she said.  Harris was silent as Pence defended the high U.S. death toll, even as Pence took a shot at the former vice president over past scandals involving plagiarism.  “The reality is when you look at the Biden plan,” Pence says, “it looks a little like plagiarism.”  That, Pence said, is “something that Joe Bien knows a little bit about.”  During their first discussion period, both Harris and Pence quickly shot down interruptions from their opponents.  "I'm speaking," Harris asserted as Pence tried to jump in.  The Sept. 29 presidential debate was widely panned after it quickly went off the rails as both candidates hurled insults at each other and Trump repeatedly interrupted Biden, forcing moderator Chris Wallace to press the president to allow Biden to speak.  In a clear recognition of the earlier debate, moderator Susan Page of USA TODAY offered a warning to the candidates at the start.  “We want a debate that is lively but America also deserves a debate that is civil,” she said.  — John Fritze  And they’re off  The first and only vice presidential debate of the 2020 election is underway.  Pence and Harris are facing off in Salt Lake City, Utah, at a critical moment in the race, as President Donald Trump is battling COVID-19, talks over a stimulus to blunt the economic impact of the pandemic has stalled (again) and several battleground polls show Democratic nominee Joe Biden with a narrow but growing lead.  The two candidates will fight it out for 90 minutes over the virus, the economy, health care and other issues. Trump’s approach to the presidency might come up, too.  — John Fritze  Donald Trump campaign event Monday in Pittsburgh? Campaign explores possibility  As Mike Pence and Kamala Harris debate, President Donald Trump's aides are working to satisfy his desire to get back out on the campaign trail as soon as possible – perhaps early next week.  The campaign is exploring the prospect of an event on Monday in Pittsburgh, an aide said. The aide did not elaborate, saying only it would be an "event" and not a "rally" for the COVID-stricken president.  Trump, who is still recovering from the virus, also wants to make the debate with Joe Biden in Miami, scheduled for a week from Thursday.  It's uncertain whether Trump will be able to make either campaign stop.  – David Jackson  You’re on your own, debate attendees  Getting a seat in the audience for a national debate is usually a hot ticket.  This year, as for many events taking place during the pandemic, there’s a big caveat in the fine print.  The Commission on Presidential Debates and the host site, the University of Utah, want ticket holders to know that when it comes to coronavirus, they’re on their own.  “The ticket holder relieves the CPD and the event site host of any and all liability of any kind and character....in the event of fire, natural disaster...injury or sickness (including COVID-19),” the ticket advises in red letters.  — John Fritze  Debate guests assemble  Guests who won the lottery for tickets to the vice presidential debate wore salmon-colored surgical masks issued by the host University of Utah.  Michelle Pedersen, 44, who is studying opera performance and who has performed on the stage where the candidates will appear, said she was excited about the experience.  "It will be incredibly memorable because we have a female, who is going to be fabulous, up there tonight,” Pedersen said.  Juliette Ainsworth, 40, from France, voiced some concern about the future because of COVID-19, but not health cares for the debate.  "I'm worried for the future but not for the debate tonight,” Ainsworth said. “I think everybody has been taken care of."  Justin Ravago, 19, an undergraduate in business economics from Boise, Idaho, said he was looking forward to a more proper debate than the presidential candidates held last week.  "I want to hear what they have to say rather than a crossfire of words,” Ravago said.  — Bart Jansen  Backers of both sides make their case  The official protest area outside the security perimeter of the vice presidential debate seemed to be dominated not by supporters of either Mike Pence or Kamala Harris but by demonstrators upset about Turkey.  Still, there were enough people there for the presidential politics that some heated debates ensued.  “Make America what it was before Trump,” a Joe Biden supporter yelled back at a group of Donald Trump backers.  The Trump supporters booed as a truck drove by, blaming Pence, as chair of the administration’s coronavirus task force, for the number of people dying from COVID-19.  Chris Quinones, 52, of Park City, Utah, said she came to the campus to show her support for the president because she’s for “law and order.”  “We don’t want to see our country look like New York City,” she said.  Quinones, who wore an Army face mask and a blue Trump hat, said she voted for Hillary Clinton four years ago because, “I didn’t know any better.”  Quinones said her eyes were opened during the impeachment of the president. She felt that Trump’s actions were being taken out of context.  “I did a 180,” she said of her support for Trump.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  University of Utah students will attend the debate  The University of Utah held a ticket lottery for students, with 60 lucky winners allocated a seat in the hall.  "In order not to detract from the live televised event for the many millions of people watching the broadcast, live audience members shall refrain from expressing approval or disapproval of events on stage as the debate unfolds,” the tickets state.  Kingsbury Hall, the venue for tonight's vice presidential debate, is the performing arts center on the University of Utah campus and opened in 1930. The debate seal — an eagle with the legend "The Union and the Constitution forever" — hangs from the ceiling.  The ticket also says members of the audience will not hold the Commission on Presidential Debates or the event host liable for any sickness including COVID-19.  — Bart Jansen  The view from across the street  Sophomores Cooper McGee and Jake Larsen sat in lawn chairs on the ledge outside the second-story windows of their student rental house, taking in the vice presidential spectacle across the street at the University of Utah.  “I figured we’d be missing out if we didn’t,” McGee, a 20-year-old from Boise, Idaho, who is studying business management at the university and had just finished an online class.  The Biden Harris 2020 signs in their yard made clear which side they’re supporting in the debate.  “I really don’t feel like America is headed in the right direction under Trump,” McGee said. “If I were not speaking out, then I’m not doing my part.”  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Pence concedes on plexiglass  The spat over plexiglass is over – and the plexiglass won.  After Vice President Mike Pence requested plexiglass not be placed on his side of the vice presidential debate stage -- arguing it wasn’t necessary to protect the spread of COVID-19 -- the Pence team conceded late Tuesday.  Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr., a co-chairman of the Commission on Presidential Debates, told the New York Times that Pence’s staff agreed to accept the placement of the plexiglass dividers.  Pence and Harris will sit 12 feet and 3 inches from each other with tables in front of them. Plexiglass will be to each of their sides, photos of the debate stage show.  The Commission on Presidential Debates made the plexiglass part of new safety guidelines installed after President Donald Trump and several Republican allies tested positive for COVID-19 just days following last week’s first presidential debate in Cleveland, Ohio.  But Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, objected, saying that it wasn’t needed because of other safety accommodations including daily testing and the extended separation between the candidates on stage.  “If she wants it, she’s more than welcome to surround herself with plexiglass if that makes her feel more comfortable,” Short told The Washington Post on Tuesday before later conceding.  — Joey Garrison  Who says debates can’t be fun?  Coronavirus. Bible. Systemic Racism. Dr. Anthony Fauci.  Those are some of the words that could win a Bingo during the vice presidential debate.  Customized “Debate Bingo” cards are scattered along the tables in the media filing hall at the University of Utah.  There’s even a Bingo stamping device (which this reporter initially thought was hand sanitizer) to stamp the cards as keywords rush by Mental fitness. Electoral College. Masks. Voter Fraud.  Bingo!  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  How to watch, what to watch in Harris-Pence matchup  Pence and Harris will meet Wednesday for their only debate. The 90-minute event begins at 9 p.m. ET and won’t be hard to find: It’ll be broadcast on every major network. Viewers streaming on USATODAY.com will have the added benefit of real-time fact-checking and political context.  What to watch for? To begin with, the debate comes as the nation has watched President Donald Trump fight his own case of COVID-19, and a steady stream of White House officials also test positive. That issue, and the issue of how the White House has responded, is guaranteed to be front and center.  There are other top themes as well. Both candidates will try to sell themselves as a credible replacement for whoever becomes the president in an election in which both candidates are in their mid-70s (Trump is 74 and Biden is 77). That dynamic in particular makes this vice presidential debate potentially more interesting than those that have come before it.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City, and John Fritze  Republican attorneys general attack Harris  Republican attorneys general slammed Kamala Harris ahead of Wednesday night’s vice presidential debate, accusing Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden’s running mate of spewing “dangerous rhetoric” and showing “absolute disregard for the rule of law.”  Attorneys general from Louisiana, Utah and Arkansas went after Harris’ record as California’s attorney general and as a U.S. senator, specifically citing her stance on immigration, energy, gun control, policing and other issues. The criticism could foreshadow Vice President Mike Pence’s line of attack against Harris during the debate at the University of Utah.  “Kamala Harris is dangerous and divisive,” Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge said during a news conference in Salt Lake City. “She had no business being the attorney general of California with her disregard for the rule of law. She has no business being a U.S. senator. And Kamala Harris certainly has no business being the vice president of the United States.”  Harris, who has served as California’s junior Democratic senator since 2017, was the state’s attorney general for six years before entering Congress. Republicans have heavily scrutinized her record as attorney general, arguing that it provides some insight to the kind of policies she would pursue if she and Biden are elected in November.  “We do not aspire the United States to be California,” said Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry, chairman of the Republican Attorneys General Association. “However, if we elect a Biden-Harris ticket, that’s exactly what the American people are going to get.”  — Michael Collins, Salt Lake City  Campaign: Harris’ goal is not to 'eviscerate' Pence  Many Biden campaign supporters are hoping to see Sen. Kamala Harris take on Vice President Mike Pence the way the former prosecutor went after Brett Kavanaugh, Jeff Sessions and others who have testified before the Senate committees on which she serves. (In fact, that was the first remark this reporter heard from her taxi driver after arriving in Salt Lake City on Tuesday.)  Harris’ tough debating reputation was also cemented by her attack on Joe Biden’s past opposition to busing during the Democratic presidential debates last year.  But Harris isn’t coming to the vice presidential debate stage “to eviscerate” Pence, said Symone Sanders, senior adviser to the Biden campaign.  “She is there to really talk to people at home and breakthrough about what they're feeling, their lives and their families,” Sanders told reporters Wednesday morning.  That’s a smart strategy, according to Christine Matthews, a GOP pollster and Trump critic. Matthews tweeted that she understands Harris’ team has been studying research on how voters perceive women in these situations.  “She will be fighting stereotypes of a 'nasty’ woman while she makes contrast points,” Matthews tweeted.  Research by the Barbara Lee Foundation shows voters will back a male candidate they don’t like, if they think that he’s qualified. But they won’t vote for a woman if she’s not “likeable.”  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Poll: Voters more 'cold' than 'warm' on both Pence, Harris  Neither of the vice presidential candidates are eliciting warm, fuzzy feelings from a majority of voters, according to a new Pew Research Center survey released before the vice presidential debate.  About half (51%) of registered voters give Pence “cold” ratings and a slightly smaller share (48%) said the same about Harris.  Slightly more than one-third (36%) feel “warmly” toward Pence; 39% do about Harris.  The ratings largely reflect partisan differences with most Republicans feeling positive about Pence but negative about Harris. The reverse is true for Democrats, according to the Sept. 30-Oct. 5 survey of 11,929 adults, including 10,543 registered voters.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Harris’ debate guests  Two of the limited number of guests Kamala Harris can bring to the debate under COVID restrictions are Utah residents who the campaign says represent “the communities and the families that a Joe Biden and Kamala Harris administration will fight for.”  Teacher Deborah Gatrell is a Blackhawk pilot and Army National Guard veteran. She’s also the only Democrat running for the Salt Lake City council.  “As we all know, down-ballot change is where we see progress made,” Liz Allen, communications director for Harris, told reporters Wednesday.  State Rep. Angela Romero will also be cheering on Harris from inside the debate hall. The campaign called her a longtime community organizer for progressive causes, equality and social justice.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Poll: Who will win debate vs. who is better prepared for the Oval Office  Who voters expect to win the vice presidential debate is different from which candidate they think is better prepared to become president, according to a new Morning Consult/Politico poll.  Voters surveyed Oct. 2-4 gave the debating edge to Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., over Vice President Mike Pence: 43% to 37%. That’s due primarily to independents picking Harris while Democrats and Republicans backed their party’s own running mates.  But 57% of voters said they believed Pence is prepared to step into the Oval Office if necessary compared with 50% for Harris.  Pence did better overall because more Democrats found him prepared to be president than the share of Republicans who said the same of Harris.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City  Westward Ho!  The vice presidential candidates are staying in the West following their debate in Salt Lake City.  Vice President Mike Pence is scheduled to go to Nevada on Thursday and Arizona on Friday.  Former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Kamala Harris are heading to Arizona on Thursday, where they’re expected to meet with American Indian tribal leaders and embark on a “Soul of the Nation” bus tour.  Harris’ husband, Doug Emhoff, is campaigning in Colorado on Thursday and Friday.  Biden is expected to be in Nevada on Friday.  — Maureen Groppe, Salt Lake City LIVE: Coronavirus front and center as Pence, Harris square off in only vice presidential debate