Windsor Mann  Opinion columnist  Like most Americans, I didn’t watch President Trump’s town hall on Tuesday night. I was too busy doing anything else.  Two days later, I capitulated and watched it on demand. Five minutes later, Joe Biden’s town hall began. The contrast was startling.  Unlike Trump — who sat during his town hall — Biden stood during his, as if the national anthem were playing. Trump looked lumpish and sounded confused. Biden looked spirited and sounded human. He was lucid, informed and affable — almost superhuman.  As Rick Wilson pointed out, Trump makes Biden seem like Demosthenes. Indeed, Biden uttered more complete sentences in one night than Trump has in his entire presidency. When Trump talks about vaccines, he sounds like an infomercial host peddling miraculous crystals that cure depression and hair loss. When Biden talks about vaccines, he sounds like someone who has studied them. This is not to say he was flawless. He got some facts wrong — Trump didn’t hold a Bible upside down at Lafayette Square — but he got the tone right.  Trump's biggest problem — himself  Trump, who claims to speak for “real Americans,” was visibly uncomfortable speaking with real Americans. These were undecided voters, not sycophants or Fox News hosts, and persuading undecided voters to support Trump at this point — amid a pandemic and a recession — is harder than selling asbestos to them.  Demagogues become popular because they talk about things that matter to people. In 2016, Trump talked about immigration, the opioid crisis and political correctness — things that no one else was talking about. This year, he’s talking about things that no one cares about: Confederate flags, Goodyear tires and his Twitter account. He’s a demagogue increasingly disconnected from the demos.  Unlike in 2016, Trump can’t afford to talk about the country’s biggest problems because he’s primarily responsible for them. When he talks about problems, he denies they’re problems. He tells sick people they’re healthy and unemployed people that the economy is booming. To appeal to voters, he has to lie to them, and on Tuesday he lied to their masked faces.  Black Lives Matter debate:I'm a Democrat who worked with police for 28 years. I wish everyone knew them like I did.  To a woman suffering from an inflammatory disease called sarcoidosis who was worried about losing her health insurance, Trump told her he would not “hurt preexisting conditions,” which must have come as a relief to her sarcoidosis.  How would he protect people with preexisting conditions?  “What we’re doing is, we’re going to be doing a health care plan. Preexisting — protecting people with preexisting conditions. As an example, yourself. It sounds like that’s exactly perfect. That’s exactly what we’re talking about. We’re going to be doing a health care plan very strongly and protect people with preexisting conditions.”  It would be inaccurate to describe that as word salad. Salads are good for your health.  Misleader in chief  Campaigns are not about plans. They’re about connecting with voters, which Trump so far has failed to do. He has no health care plan and no empathy. Rather than feeling your pain, Trump wants you to feel his.  He blamed China for the pandemic and Democrats for everything else. After lambasting “Democrat-run cities,” he called himself “the president of everybody.” He sounded like the president of nobody.  “We are run by a group of incompetent people, and they are destroying our country,” Trump said in 2015. He spoke five years too soon.  America is in worse shape now than it was when Trump said it was in the worst shape it had ever been. The unemployment rate is 8.4%. It was 4.7% when Trump took office in January 2017. Also, nearly 198,000 Americans have died from COVID. Unsurprisingly, the United States is less respected in much of abroad than it has ever been, according to a new Pew survey.  The Backstory:What our health journalists want you to know about the coronavirus vaccine  Defending his record, Trump said, “I get things done like nobody’s ever gotten.” He argued that some people “are doing better than they were doing before the pandemic came,” which is true. Technically, Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump are people.  On the pandemic, Trump said he’s done “a tremendous job” and complained that people weren’t giving him more credit. Trump said that if it hadn’t been for him, there would be two million deaths instead of nearly 200,000. He blamed the deaths not on the virus but on tests of the virus. “If we wouldn’t do testing,” he said, “you wouldn’t have cases.” Presumably this is how Trump never contracted STDs.  “We’ve done a really good job, and we didn’t mislead anybody,” the president said, intending to mislead everybody.  Asked why he downplayed the coronavirus in February and March, the Misleader of the People said he “up-played it.” And also that he downplayed it. “I don’t want to scare people. I don’t want to make people panic,” said the same president who warned that Biden will “let terrorists roam free” and “abolish the American way of life.”  He also said, four times, that the coronavirus is “going to disappear.” Referring to no evidence whatsoever, he added, “Without a vaccine it will go away quickly.”  With any luck, so will he.  Windsor Mann, a member of USA TODAY’s Board of Contributors, is the editor of “The Quotable Hitchens: From Alcohol to Zionism” and a senior adviser to the Lincoln Project. Follow him on Twitter: @WindsorMann. Donald Trump's supervillain ABC town hall made Joe Biden appear almost superhuman