On election night, Emiliano Diaz de Leon, 44, of Cedar Park, Texas, was worried.  As a Latino, he's seen the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on his community and has felt threatened by immigration policies of the Trump administration. A win for Republican President Donald Trump could mean no progress on the pandemic and an emboldening of Trump supporters who could target Latinos, he said.  Hours later, he watched as former Vice President Joe Biden's campaign announced during a news conference that the Democrat was on track to win. Diaz de Leon wasn't sure what to make of it.  "I don't really have a sense of relief and that I can breathe, but I have an optimism," he said Wednesday.  A sense of high anxiety has gripped the nation after a historic election that saw a record number of votes cast, testing nerves already frayed by the pandemic, crippling recession and raw racial divide.  In the balance sits control of the White House and Congress, and people's feelings about how the government will protect their jobs, their civil rights or their lives as the number of COVID-19 cases breaks records.  Interviews from across the USA show that some people can’t get election updates fast enough, while others want to disappear for hours or days until the results are official. Some are distracted by bingeing TV shows, others by working out. Coping comes in different forms, and nothing seems off-limits during this polarizing national moment.  In Safford, Arizona, David Morse, owner of Firing Pin Gun & Pawn, was so stressed out election night he decided to watch movies and only occasionally glance at the news before calling it a night early. "I couldn't take it," said Morse, 62, an ardent Trump supporter. "I don't watch a sausage being made."  Ariel Rabines, 30, of San Diego, felt similarly pained about election night, especially since things looked questionable for Biden, whom he supports.  "I woke up this morning a lot happier than when I went to bed last night," said Rabines, a marine biologist. "It's looking good, but I'm still anxious. Hopefully, the democratic process plays out the way it should, and whoever wins wins."  One thing is certain, someone eventually will be declared the winner, whether in hours, days or weeks. Until that time, Americans will have to learn to manage a challenging level of national stress.  "We need to take a breath," said Vaile Wright, director of clinical research and quality at the American Psychological Association. "This is literally out of our control right now. Go do something else. Watch a movie. Talk to a friend – not about the election. Do whatever's soothing, and put your phones away. Turn the TV off. Paying attention to it is not going to make it happen any sooner."  If you must stay abreast of the news, do so in moderation, counseled Elissa Epel, professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the University of California-San Francisco.  “Choose your favorite reliable sources of information and choose a time to check them, and then limit it to that,” Epel said. “It’s easy to be compulsive here, but it’s not the wise thing to do.”  Epel said citizens would be wise to cast aside the time-honored notion that all elections are decided on election night, if only to give ourselves an emotional cushion. Otherwise, she said, we risk developing a heightened sense of anxiety and unease that, studies show, comes from incessant consumption of news and social media. For the moment, feeling tense is almost inevitable.  “Of course, we’re on edge,” Epel said. “It’s a tenuous moment in our history. So the question is, how will Americans cope with our next chapter when we get the results?”  Newscasts of the election results proved too emotionally draining Tuesday night for Mary Wolff, 31, of New York. Instead, she flicked on a movie. By the time she went to bed, she felt hopeless as votes poured in.  By Wednesday, she had recovered some of her optimism as a number of battleground states were still up for grabs. She feared the election would not be resolved quickly and without strife, as evidenced by the many boarded-up shop windows that line streets in New York and other cities.  "I don't think a civil war is going to happen,” said Wolff, who voted for Biden. “But I do think there is going to be a lot of pushback.”  Shortly after Charlene Cunningham woke up Wednesday morning in Phoenix, the high school history teacher tweeted one pressing question: "Can't I just stay in bed all day and hide under the covers?"  It had been a long night. Cunningham, a registered Democrat began Election Day feeling uncertain, worried her vote for Biden might not be enough. Then she stayed awake well after midnight, sharing pizza with her sisters and children as results trickled in. They tried to keep themselves calm.  By the time the sun rose Wednesday, her optimism was tinged with uneasiness. She took pride in Arizona's high voter turnout, marveled at how smooth the voting process seemed to be and was excited by the state's apparent blue shift. But she still felt anxious about the presidential race. And she worried for what she saw as a divided nation.  "On a map, you can see county by county, the divisions," she said. "It feels like we're two different Americas."  If it were only a matter of waiting for votes to be counted in a half-dozen battleground states, that would be nerve-wracking enough. But the delay, due largely to unprecedented mail-in voting generated by the COVID-19 crisis, prompted Trump to claim that mail-in ballots were illegally counted and to demand intervention from the Supreme Court.  In the early hours of Wednesday, Trump claimed he had won the election, when many votes in states such as Wisconsin and Pennsylvania remained uncounted. Wednesday morning, his campaign warned his supporters in a donation-solicitation email, “We can’t allow the Left-wing MOB to undermine our Election. I’m asking my fiercest and most loyal defenders, like YOU, to FIGHT BACK!”  Responding to Trump’s late-night claim of victory, Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said, “The president’s statement tonight about trying to shut down the counting of duly cast ballots was outrageous, unprecedented and incorrect.”  O’Malley Dillon raised the specter of a prolonged fight to ensure all votes are counted, noting that “if the president makes good on his threat to go to court to try to prevent the proper tabulation of votes, we have legal teams standing by ready to deploy to resist that effort. And they will prevail.”  The fight might not just be legal. Long before the election, supporters of both candidates clashed in streets from coast to coast.  In San Diego, William Kluck, 58, a computer technology worker from Boulder, Colorado, visiting family in the Southern California beach city, said he was dealing with multiple stressors Wednesday. One is that the votes wouldn’t be properly counted, and the other is the threat of violence from Republicans should Biden win the election.  "I have a real concern that the right loves to parade their guns around and intimidate people,” he said.  Victoria Robertson, 41, an opera singer and film producer hanging out at Meshuggah Shack coffee shop, worried that Biden supporters would riot should Trump, whom she supports, win. Republicans, she said, "don't usually react as a mob. That's not the conservative way."  In Texas, Diaz de Leon was disappointed the traditionally Republican state stayed red despite big gains in Democratic votes, but was happy that it appeared Arizona would tip toward the Democrats, in large part because of the growing Latino population there.  The unresolved presidential election result worried him. He said he was "really afraid of the potential of violence to escalate and for us as a Latino community to be targeted by that violence."  In the suburban Phoenix area, Ryker Martin comes from a long line of Arizona Republicans. But he said the state's demographics and politics have been shifting for some time. Although Martin didn’t vote for Trump, he also didn’t vote for Biden. Instead, feeling disillusioned with the political process, he wrote in a "Star Trek" character.  Martin said he bristles at the way the Democratic party embarked on "this moral crusade -- if you don’t vote, or you’re voting for Trump, you’re a racist, homophobic, piece of crap and you’re voting for bigotry. There’s a certain level of propaganda to that.”  Fear of a violent reaction over the election results worried Martin. He made sure to have his gun with him on election night.  “I find it depressing that I feel stress no matter who wins,” he said. “There could be serious repercussions in the United States through acts of violence. I saw how bad people freaked out at the beginning of COVID, beating each other over toilet paper."  In Chicago, Joe Sullivan mentally prepared himself for post-election week limbo. The plumber from the Southwest Side who voted for Trump this year and in 2016, said he got through election night downing a few drinks with some friends, then tuned into the updates on his drive to work Wednesday.  “I’m feeling alright, I kind of had a feeling it wasn’t going to end last night,” Sullivan said. “I don’t really get crazy over this stuff.”  The city he lives in may feel otherwise. Several protests were planned for Wednesday afternoon, and one of the bridges along the Chicago River, near Trump Tower, had been raised – a common sight in recent months amid incidents of looting or unrest. The move has been used to restrict access to downtown.  “I’m almost sad that I feel like the country is already divided enough,” said Sullivan, 35. “From now on, our whole election process is going to be questioned, the legitimacy of it. There’s so much stuff out there that could be false, and people take it and run with it like it’s true.”  For Kasmine Roach, 28, a parking cashier at Huntsville International Airport in Alabama, the stress of this election is visceral. She was glued to the news Tuesday night and slept only two hours, rising at 3:30 a.m. to get to work on time. She said she’s on the verge of a “panic attack” and, as a Black woman, feels betrayed by fellow Alabamians who handed Trump the state’s electoral votes.  “People tell you not to let politics dictate your mood, but that’s easy to say when you live in California,” she said. “Knowing that people voted against me, it hurts. Mentally, I’m not in a good place.”  Roach said she remains hopeful Biden will win, but she’s angry that it’s such a close race. “Two things that the South is amazing at is bomb sweet tea and upholding white supremacy,” she said. “I just feel really hopeless for Alabama at this point.”  To stay calm and find support, Roach said, she’s been joining and hosting online listening circles. She plans to attend one in-person Wednesday evening outside the courthouse in Florence, as well as a “virtual vent session” for Black women hosted by a mental health organization based in Birmingham.  “I’m just really trying to make sure people are OK mentally, especially our minority groups,” she said.  In Kansas City, longtime Republicans Janice and Herb Taylor were convinced that the Democrats were trying to steal the election.  On election night, Herb checked the television while Janice, 78, a retired financial services professional, tried to avoid the news. “I don’t believe the counts, that little frail guy looks like a good wind could blow him over,” she said of Biden. “I don’t think people would have voted for him.”  Taylor said her friends, family and neighbors felt similarly. “Nobody can believe it, no one believes the voting,” she said.  Anthony Valbiro, 66, of Rye, New York, was stunned by election night, but remained hopeful that Biden will be able to capture the presidency. The actor and painter said the election has divided his close-knit Italian family in a way that no other political contest has before. He says where family members once used to respect their differences, now a wall has gone up between them.  "I hate what it brings up in me because I'm not a person that hates or feels those kinds of strong emotions," says Valbiro. "There are many friends and immediate family I can't talk to at all about this."  Valbiro said although the vote-counting seems to be coming to a close, "I don't think this is over at all."  Contributing USA TODAY and USA TODAY Network reporters: Grace Hauck in Chicago, Ryan Miller, Joseph Spector and Alia Dastagir in New York, Dennis Wagner in San Diego, Trevor Hughes in Denver, and Alden Woods and Rebekah Sanders in Phoenix. 'Not in a good place': Americans grapple with anxiety, fear each other while waiting for election results