President Donald Trump vowed during the closing days of his reelection campaign that Republican lawyers would watch Pennsylvania's voting and potentially file lawsuits about alleged violations.  Before noon on Election Day, a GOP challenge in the state’s Eastern District federal court seemed to make good on the promise.  The Montgomery County Board of Elections, near Philadelphia, improperly opened and inspected mail ballots received before Tuesday, alleged the lawsuit filed on behalf of Kathy Barnette, a Republican congressional candidate, U.S. military veteran and author.  Elections officials, the lawsuit charged, gave some voters whose ballots had errors that would have invalidated their votes an opportunity to "cure" them and file provisional ballots on Election Day. A second Pennsylvania lawsuit filed later on Tuesday made similar allegations.  Still, no wave of new U.S. voting-related lawsuits emerged Tuesday evening — although there were developments in an ongoing federal case, in which the U.S. Postal Service missed a deadline to check for potentially hundreds of thousands of undelivered election ballots.  However, as the first polls closed Tuesday, courts were handling a few recent lawsuits.  Protesters sued North Carolina law enforcement agencies, alleging they'd been improperly pepper-sprayed and intimidated from voting during a Saturday rally and march.  Nevada's highest court rejected a Republican attempt to halt processing of mail ballots.  In Arkansas, a case asked the court to compel election officials to comply with federal regulations for voters with disabilities. In Philadelphia, a court sent a sheriff to address alleged voter intimidation.  The actions were filed in the closing days of an election year that has seen more voting-related lawsuits than any in recent memory. The cases joined more than 230 election-related federal lawsuits filed from Jan. 1 to Oct. 23, more than any of the past three presidential election years, USA TODAY reported last week. The full tally is even higher because the analysis did not include lawsuits filed in state courts.  "Nothing about 2020 has been usual," said Danielle Lang, co-director of voting rights and redistricting for the Campaign Legal Center, a nonpartisan group that works for unrestricted access to voting. This year, she said, "has been the most litigious year for voting cases yet."  Lawyers representing Trump's Republican presidential campaign may file cases in Pennsylvania and other states in hopes of overseeing ballot-counting procedures, Lang predicted. The lawyers may also mount court challenges aimed at disqualifying votes that would otherwise go to his Democratic Party challenger, former Vice President Joe Biden.  Even so, the lawsuits may not drag out election results. Some of those cases, Lang said, could act as legal placeholders that aren't pursued unless the cases have a strong chance of changing the state's outcome.  Here's a breakdown of new lawsuits filed on Election Day or the closing days of the presidential race, plus previous cases that could have an impact on the final outcome.  Pennsylvania  The lawsuit filed on behalf of Barnette, the GOP congressional candidate, argued Pennsylvania’s election code “expressly prohibits” counties from checking any ballots, including mail-in or absentee ballots, before 7 a.m. on Election Day. The challenge, if successful, theoretically could help other candidates, including Trump.  “Montgomery County is pre-canvasing mail-in and absentee ballots, before 7 a.m. on Election Day, detecting defects in these ballots, and contacting some mail-in or absentee voters to change their ballots,” the lawsuit said, alleging that the procedure violated the Constitution’s equal protection clause by providing different treatment to one group of voters over others.  “To make matters worse, the Montgomery County Board of Elections is restricting the ability of candidates and their representatives, the parties and their representatives and other legally constituted watchers to observe the entire canvass process for the mail-in and absentee ballots.”  The legal challenge focuses on a Pennsylvania county that Trump lost to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in 2016, 59% to 37%.  “We believe our process is sound and permissible under the election code,” said Kelly Cofrancisco, a spokeswoman for the Montgomery County Board of Elections. She said 49 ballots appeared to be affected by the challenge.  A federal court in Pennsylvania's eastern district scheduled a hearing for 9 a.m. Wednesday on Barnette's motion for a temporary restraining order. The hearing is expected to focus on whether the Montgomery County mail ballots in question may be challenged.  Pennsylvania's voting code allows but does not require the so-called ballot "curing" procedure used by the Montgomery County Board of Elections, said Suzanne Almeida, the interim director of the Pennsylvania branch of Common Cause, a government watchdog organization and democracy advocate.  "This is another attempt to cast out perfectly valid votes,” Almeida said during an Election Day conference call with reporters.  A similar legal challenge was filed Tuesday night by Rep. Mike Kelly, a Republican who represents the state's 16th Congressional District, and Joe Hamm, a Republican candidate for the 84th District seat in Pennsylvania's House of Representatives.  They seek a preliminary injunction that would block Secretary of State Kathy Boockvar from allowing absentee and mail ballots that have been inspected and invalidated to be cured by those voters' provisional ballots. They also want the court to bar Boockvar from disclosing information about voters whose mail or absentee ballots were invalidated.  Like the lawsuit filed for Barnette, the challenge by Kelly and Hamm alleges the secretary of State improperly disregarded a recent Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruling about the handling procedure for mail and absentee ballots.  Separately, an attorney for Trump's presidential campaign won an order from a Philadelphia County Court of Common Pleas to have a sheriff go to a polling place in the city's Ward 36. The sheriff was to "prevent intimidation of voters or poll workers" until the final ballot was cast there. The court denied a motion to impound a voting machine and other election material at the location.  Trump lost that ward to Clinton in the 2016 presidential race.  North Carolina  A pair of federal lawsuits were filed on Monday in response to the I Am Change rally and march on Saturday in Graham, North Carolina. The rally ended with the crowd being pepper-sprayed by law enforcement officers and multiple arrests and injuries.  The lawsuits name Alamance County Sheriff Terry Johnson and Kristy Cole, the chief of the Graham Police Department.  At least four of the marchers were unable to cast early ballots on the day of the event, one of the complaints alleged. One was Tabatha Davis, who struggled to see and breathe after being pepper-sprayed, one of the lawsuits said.  The law enforcement actions "amplify the already charged atmosphere for voters in North Carolina," the other complaint alleged.  In an official statement, law enforcement authorities said the officers did not spray anyone in the face. "When the crowd failed to disperse, after several verbal commands, officers with the Graham Police Department utilized a crowd control measure that consisted of spraying a pepper based vapor onto the ground," the statement said, according to a report by The Times-News in Burlington, North Carolina.  The lawsuits seek court declarations that bar law enforcement agencies from intimidating or harassing potential voters near polling areas, as well as unspecified compensation for damages and legal fees.  Nevada  Nevada's Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected an emergency Republican appeal to stop the processing of mail ballots, the second loss on the issue in recent days. Lawyers for the GOP side had argued they were improperly blocked from "the ability to meaningfully observe the processing of mail ballots to ensure that those ballots are authenticated in the manner required by Nevada law."  Denying immediate relief, the court said the Republicans had not shown "a sufficient likelihood of success" in the lawsuit. However, the case can proceed on an expedited schedule later this week.  Arkansas  Arkansas United, a nonprofit immigrant advocacy organization, filed a federal lawsuit Monday against Arkansas election officials over a clash between the state's election law and the voter assistance provisions of the federal Voting Rights Act.  Enacted in 1965, the federal law states that voters who are blind, disabled or have difficulty reading and writing English may receive voter assistance from "a person of the voter's choice," other than that person's employer or an agent of her or his union.  However, the state election code bars voters from receiving ballot assistance from someone who has already helped six others during an election, the lawsuit said.  The restrictions "prevent community organizations from carrying out their work to promote voting and force those organizations to divert resources away from critical tasks in order to recruit, train and compensate additional assistors," the lawsuit said.  The complaint seeks a court injunction that bars Arkansas from denying voters assistance from any person of their choice. Expect lawsuits if election results are close. Here's where they've been filed so far.