WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump is planning to court Florida's crucial Latino population – specifically Cuban Americans – during a whirlwind tour to Miami this week, underscoring the importance of a demographic highly sought after by both campaigns.  After weeks of flooding TV and radio airtime in the state aimed at Cuban Americans, Trump plans to hold a Latino-focused roundtable in Miami on Friday, the campaign announced Wednesday. Similar events held recently in Arizona and Nevada have taken on the air of a trademark Trump campaign rally.  Others are watching to see if Trump will use the trip to meet with appeals court Judge Barbara Lagoa, considered a frontrunner for the Supreme Court vacancy created by the death Friday of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Trump has said he "may" meet with Lagoa, the daughter of Cuban exiles, during his two-day trip to Florida.  More:Biden is getting trounced with Cuban American voters in Florida,  More:A 'superhero' who 'never quit': Ginsburg returns to Supreme Court for final time  The event comes as Trump has leaned heavily on an unfounded message that the Democratic party, and by extension Democratic nominee Joe Biden, are running on a socialist platform. In fact, Biden has spent a career in politics largely within the party's center, and he won the Democratic primary this year by beating a more liberal field.  The events in Miami will be part of two-day trip that will also take Trump to Jacksonville, Florida and also to Charlotte, North Carolina, where he plans to discuss health care, and Atlanta, Georgia, where he will meet with a group of African-American voters. The president has said he will name his Supreme Court nominee at 5 p.m. on Saturday.  In another indication of Trump's desire to make Cuba an election year issue, the State Department announced Wednesday that Americans visiting Cuba will be prohibited from staying at 433 hotels believed to be owned or controlled by the government or "certain well-connected insiders."  The order was taken as part of a broader effort announced by Trump to tighten restrictions on the Cuban government, a sharp reversal from the more open policies toward the island nation under President Barack Obama.  More:Trump bars Americans from staying at Cuban hotels  "We don't need socialists, and we don't need communists telling us how to run our country," Trump asserted during a campaign rally in Pittsburgh on Tuesday.  That message has been amplified in advertising in Florida, catering to groups of Americans who fled authoritative regimes.  Hispanics make up about a quarter of Florida's roughly 21.5 million population and 17% of its registered voters. As the single largest Hispanic ethnicity in the state, Cuban Americans in South Florida wield enormous influence on the political stage. They have generally leaned Republican, though younger generations are more liberal.  Polls show Trump and Biden are virtually tied in the Sunshine State, but also indicate that Biden has lost ground with Latinos when compared with Hillary Clinton in 2016. Biden is trailing Trump among Florida Latinos, 46%-50%, an NBC News/Marist poll earlier this month. Clinton won the demographic by nearly 30 points four years ago.  The RealClearPolitics average of recent polls in Florida puts Biden up 1.5 points.  A recent Wall Street Jour­nal/NBC/Tele­mu­ndo poll showed Biden leading Trump 62%-28% among Latinos nationally.  Biden, meanwhile, has pushed back on the socialist label – "I beat the socialist," he said this week, referring to Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. – and he focused on Puerto Rican voters during remarks in Kissimmee, Florida, last week.  "Even after being president for nearly four years, Donald Trump doesn’t seem to grasp that the people of Puerto Rico are American citizens already, and they deserve to have leadership in government that understands that in America there’s no room for the idea of second-class citizens," he said. "I am running to be a President for all Americans, including 3 million American citizens living in Puerto Rico."  Contributing: Rebecca Morin, Ledyard King, Alan Gomez Trump to court Latino votes in Miami as campaigns battle for Florida in final stretch