Sara Bleich, Jessica Cohen, Benjamin Sommers and Joseph Allen  Opinion contributors  Every day, 14 million children go hungry in the United States. Much has been written about the cracks in the federal safety net that COVID-19 has exposed. Not nearly enough attention has been paid to the rapid rise in child hunger.  Before the pandemic, low-income children got half of their calories from school meals. With many schools closed for in-person learning and high unemployment, COVID-19 has driven children's food insecurity (defined as lack of consistent access to enough food for an active, healthy life) to the highest level in decades.  Many approaches are being used to try to address the rise in child hunger, but none is sufficient. And key changes that could help millions of kids get food are caught up in partisan politics.  The numbers are tragic.  COVID-19 has doubled the percent of households with children who are food insecure from 14% to 28%. As with so many of COVID-19’s impacts, Black and brown populations are most affected.  At the same time, 2.5 million additional children have fallen below the poverty line since May.  Food insecurity has both immediate and long-term consequences. Kids suffering from food insecurity are twice as likely to be in fair or poor health and are more likely to be hospitalized. They are more likely to experience developmental issues, such as deficiencies in motor skills, social skills and memory.  Food insecurity experienced in first grade — even when corrected by third grade — still carries negative consequences into fifth grade. The effects of food insecurity extend beyond the school years, leading to higher health care costs and poor job readiness as adults.  For decades, schools have been key to combatting child hunger through the national school lunch and breakfast programs. Before the pandemic, almost 30 million children — more than 50% of school-age children — received free or reduced price meals.  Now, with 74% of the countries’ 100 largest districts starting the school year remotely, the critical question is how many children who need school meals are receiving them?  Certainly, schools are trying. There have been heroic and innovative efforts to provide meals to children during the pandemic. In Baltimore, meal delivery sites have been placed in central locations like apartment buildings or churches. In South Carolina, meals are provided along school bus routes. In New York City, more than 400 “grab-and-go” locations have been set up at schools in all five boroughs, and meals are also delivered to homes.  But participation rates are low. In nine weeks in the spring, 1.15 billion school meals were missed, which is particularly concerning because the need has grown during the economic downturn. By another estimate, only about 15% of low-income households with children who qualify for free or reduced-price school meals are getting them.  Despite the efforts schools and cities are making, it is extremely difficult to replace the built-in meal delivery system of in-person schooling.  Some progress is being made. One important policy is the federal Pandemic-Electronic Benefit Transfer program, which allows states to provide families with benefits they can use to buy groceries to replace the meals their children missed at school.  This totals about $114 per child for four weeks and has reduced the number of households with children reporting that they do not have enough to eat. All states are providing this benefit. The program was recently extended through September 2021. However, food prices have gone up since the start of the pandemic, diminishing the reach of these benefits.  A second key change is a recent federal waiver to allow all children, regardless of income, to receive free meals for the entire school year. However, this policy was already effectively in place over the spring and summer, and meal participation was still low. A third is the CARES Act, signed into law in March, which has provided funding to schools to help defray meal costs.  Despite these actions, we need to do much more.  One of the most effective ways to feed hungry children is to increase the monthly benefit in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps).  SNAP helps tens of millions of Americans afford food each month — nearly half of whom are children. It is the nation’s largest nutrition assistance program and is a proven approach to reduce food insecurity. SNAP also reduces poverty, which is critical as unemployment remains high, especially for racial and ethnic minorities.  Both versions of the House Heroes bill, which passed in May and October, included a temporary 15% increase in the SNAP benefit ($100 monthly for a family of four). A similar boost during the Great Recession helped reduce food insecurity among income-eligible households and children.  Schools need more money. The significant actions taken by schools to alleviate hunger have put many in the red. More than half of schools reported a financial loss for the 2019-20 school year, and in the spring, the 12 largest school districts reported a combined loss of $39 million per week.  The Heroes bill includes $3 billion in additional funding to provide emergency relief for school meals and other child nutrition programs.  In addition, key investments in school pandemic safety are needed, as reopening schools safely is one of the most direct ways to restore children’s access to free meals.  Senate leadership has ignored the plight of hungry children, refusing to take up this critical legislation.  In addition to strengthening the nutrition safety net, we also need to reverse policies that make child hunger worse. For example, the Trump administration issued an executive order that would make it harder for states to give SNAP benefits to families based on receipt of another government benefit. If this rule becomes final, the loss of SNAP will result in nearly 1 million children losing their eligibility for free school meals.  The Trump administration also finalized the public charge rule, which allows federal officials to deny legal immigrants a path to citizenship if they participate in certain federal safety net programs, including SNAP. The decision appears to have led to thousands fewer children receiving SNAP.  More broadly, the public charge rule and other administration actions have undermined the nation's safety net in a variety of programs, leading not only to more hungry children but also fewer enrolled in Medicaid, leaving nearly 700,000 more kids without health insurance during the pandemic.  These regulatory actions need to be rescinded or reversed. It is indefensible for policymakers to make it harder for children to participate in programs for which they are eligible and from which they benefit tremendously.  It should be a national outrage that 14 million children are hungry in America. If we do not act swiftly, food insecurity will harm a generation of children, especially Black and brown children.  Our children should not be collateral damage to COVID-19 or partisan politics.  Sara Bleich, Jessica Cohen, Benjamin Sommers and Joseph Allen are professors at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Why partisan politics keeps 14 million hungry children from getting the food they need