Stacey Abrams  Opinion contributor  Early voting started last week in my home state of Georgia, kicking off the final countdown to Election Day 2020. And President Donald Trump keeps giving voters here and around the country ample reason to go to the polls. On the debate stage, he refused to condemn white supremacy, tried to distract voters by peddling lies about vote by mail, launched personal attacks against Joe Biden’s family, and more.  To safeguard the future of our country, we must vote Trump out of office. But this election is about more than who will be our next president. It’s an opportunity to ensure that our political system doesn’t let people like Trump and his ilk make decisions that benefit them instead of the majority of Americans. Close to 220,000 deaths from COVID-19, an economy in shambles, and racist rhetoric making front-page news tragically demonstrate what happens when our government fails to respond to the needs of the people. After four damaging years, the process of building our country back better requires a wholesale reform of our democracy. We, the people, have the power to do just that.  What made Trump possible  Years of restrictions on the right to vote, partisan gerrymandering, unlimited and untraceable money in our elections, and crackdowns on unions made Trump’s catastrophic presidency possible. Right now, his regime is propped up by a putative Senate majority that represents about 48% of the U.S. population.  Among the horrible ramifications of such a deeply unrepresentative body is its devastating ability to block or confirm Supreme Court justices. President Trump plans to cram Judge Amy Coney Barrett into Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s vacancy. Barrett is a minority-driven nomination that will have long-ranging effects on health care, choice and the rights of the marginalized and disadvantaged.  The U.S. Senate has become a lopsided governing body, where four different senators represent two states with populations smaller than the 706,000 residents of Washington, D.C., who remain voiceless in the Senate. Meanwhile, Republicans have enjoyed wild success gerrymandering congressional districts and gained an average of 19 seats every election between 2012 and 2016 — even in states where they lose the popular vote — while shrinking the size of Democrats’ victory in 2018. And a man who got 3 million fewer votes than his opponent occupies the most powerful job in the world.  Minority rule:Will Democrats grow backbones amid Trump-Republican rush to replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg?  We can have all the partisan fights we want, but our electoral process and system of government should be neutral and fair to every American. If we vote in droves for the only candidate who supports checks and balances and will fight for a functioning democracy, we can reform the system so it works for all of us and finally delivers on the meaningful change most Americans want.  Election Day is last call  Majorities support the work of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, benefits like paid leave, and common-sense reforms to curb the use of excessive police force. Trump has repeatedly undermined these policies and institutions — yet, at full strength, they could have mitigated the hardships of this pandemic and the loss of Black lives. Majorities also support policies that would make America safer and more prosperous, such as a path to citizenship for immigrants, expanded background checks for gun purchases, a woman’s right to choose, action on climate change, and an increased minimum wage. These markers of progress become reality if we make rebalancing our institutions a priority next year.  We have a duty to implement bold, comprehensive democracy reforms. We must pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to restore the Voting Rights Act to full strength. Moreover, we must enact fundamental reforms to voting rights, especially those hurdles exposed by COVID; end partisan gerrymandering; support investment in our electoral infrastructure; and root out corruption in our elections. Progress demands that we end the centuries-long, racist disenfranchisement of Washingtonians in the District of Columbia and make D.C. a state, while giving Puerto Rico an opportunity to determine its own future. And we must empower working people by protecting their rights and allowing them to organize for a better tomorrow.  Having her say:At 87, all my mom wanted was to vote in this election  Together, we make our future. Despite Trump’s despicable actions and incompetent leadership, we the people get to choose who our leaders are and decide how they will govern, not the other way around. Victory demands that we unite in our determination for a fairer America, joining across differences to vote for a future that includes opportunity for all.  Our obligation then is not to panic at the distractions or delay in exercising our power. Every eligible voter should immediately make a plan to vote and follow through on that plan, knowing Election Day is last call. The Trump presidency will pass, but our urgency cannot. It is on us to shore up the foundations of our democracy and rewrite the rules for the 21st century — to guarantee freedom and justice for all.  Stacey Abrams is the founder of Fair Fight Action and the former Georgia House Minority Leader. Follow her on Twitter: @staceyabrams Beat Trump and rewrite democracy rules to build an America that serves its people: Stacey Abrams