Andy Slavitt  Opinion columnist  Over 46,000 Americans tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Unlike President Donald Trump, many don’t have the ability to avoid close contacts or require that masks be worn by those around them.  They were picking crops to put food on our tables, working in distribution centers, waiting tables, or in a jail or homeless shelter. There will be no news coverage of their exposure and no reporting on who is hospitalized or dies. COVID-19 is highly infectious. It has killed hundreds of thousands of Americans and isn’t slowing down.  Those who take COVID-19 seriously and take every precaution possible are also frequently exposed to people who don’t. Former Vice President Joe Biden and Fox News' Chris Wallace were surrounded by anti-mask crusaders like Donald Trump and his family and staff, who may have been exposed them to COVID-19 at Tuesday’s debate. Who knows how many other people Trump and staff exposed at fundraisers this week, including one he did at his Bedminster golf course Thursday, after he knew he was exposed. Considering how many people each of the people he may have exposed have been in contact with, a highly contagious bug like COVID-19 can travel fast and far.  Trump can change course of COVID  President Trump’s health should not be political fodder. Biological threats to the president of the United States are serious business. Taxpayers pay millions of dollars in security and Secret Service payroll to prevent such threats from ever reaching the president. His illness should not be politicized. There is a lesson, however, in his flouting of mask wearing, one of the easiest and most effective ways to lower our risk of infection, and in our consideration of our fellow citizens.  Why do we suggest that people wear masks? You wear a mask because you don’t know if you have COVID-19. You wear a mask because you can’t possibly know if others have COVID-19. And you wear a mask if you have consideration for and care about others in your community.  Trump hit with COVID-19: Anyone can get sick. Anyone can spread the deadly disease.  For the resident of the United States, mask wearing is important for much bigger reasons. If 80% of the country wore masks, tens of thousands of lives would be saved. Many of those who don’t wear masks are highly influenced by the president. He has the power with his actions to change the course of the disease.  Make good use of this moment  The president, First Lady and first family have an enormous opportunity ahead of them. They can use this moment the same way British Prime Minister Boris Johnson did. By telling the country they must take this more seriously, by wearing masks everywhere they go, particularly in the West Wing and close quarters. By no longer mocking people who follow public health guidance by wearing masks.  COVID-19 ravaged meat plants: My refugee mother's life is worth more than the bottom line  Trump has always had the power to depoliticize the pandemic, yet he’s chosen to politicize it and add to our divisions at every turn. A divided country is a self-defeating country in a pandemic. The continent of Africa with 1.3 billion people has only 35,000 deaths. What we are asking for here isn’t particularly high tech. It’s a piece of cloth and consideration for others. If the president can find those two things, we have a much better chance of preventing tens or hundreds of thousands more deaths.  Andy Slavitt is board chair of United States of Care, host of the In the Bubble podcast and a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors. A former health care industry executive, he ran the Affordable Care Act and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services from 2015 to 2017. Follow him on Twitter: @ASlavitt Trump's COVID-19 opportunity: Stop mocking masks. Embrace them instead and save lives.