Ashish Prashar  Opinion contributor  The story of the 2020 election is that Black voters came through for President-elect Joe Biden.  When Biden’s primary campaign was written off by many, Black voters of South Carolina handed him a big win. Biden’s strength with African Americans helped him to secure the Democratic Party’s nomination.  This week, Black voters in Detroit, Philadelphia and Atlanta have determined the outcome of our presidential election. It’s striking that people who have been failed and treated the worst by our democracy (and by extension our criminal justice system) consistently do the most to save it.  It is high time for Biden and the Democratic Party to deliver justice for African Americans and other communities of color that are disproportionately discarded and forgotten within the justice system.  Biden's history on criminal justice  Our justice system is rooted in racism, and African Americans have been hit hardest by it. Still, the Black voters had huge turnouts in cities Democrats needed to be competitive.  Last year, when Biden spoke on criminal justice issues, he admitted: “I know we haven’t always gotten things right,” surely referring, in part, to the 1994 crime bill that he supported and that is often blamed for today's mass incarceration problem.  Until recently, candidates running for president competed to look tough on crime and paint their opponents as soft. But 2020 has been different.  The downfalls of our criminal justice system have been exposed for all to see, from the police killings of George Floyd (a Black man who was taken out by a police officer who put a knee on his neck) and Breonna Taylor (a Black woman shot to death by police in her own home) to the deaths of jailed Americans before they even had their day in court.  COLUMN:As a Black female law professor, I'm nurturing a system that doesn't protect people like me  The United States has the highest incarceration rate in the world, a result of decades of bipartisan legislation — like the 1994 crime bill — that propped up institutional racism. About 2.3 million people are locked up in jails and prisons, and 40% of those locked up are Black Americans (who are 13% of society).  American mass incarceration is a human rights catastrophe.  Biden, fortunately, has evolved on this issue.  In 2007, before becoming President Barack Obama’s vice president, Biden sponsored the Second Chance Act, which provides services to formerly incarcerated individuals and has gone a long way toward lowering the recidivism rate. As a senator, Biden also supported the full elimination of the sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine.  Young Black voters who did not back Biden in the Democratic primaries are the same Black youth who are protesting in the streets right now, who hold his political record as responsible for the pain they are feeling, and rightfully so.  As president, it's his duty to right those wrongs, and do right by the community that garnered his White House victory.  President-elect must question, change institutions  America needs a bold agenda that goes further than small reforms or hollow public relations moves.  The Biden administration must enlarge their field of vision. Rather than focusing on the problems of the institution and asking what needs to be changed, they must raise radical questions about the existence of these institutions to begin with.  COLUMN:To our next president: 10 priorities for fixing our justice system  What principles underpin the founding and evolution of the police, the courts and our prisons? Do those principles bend toward justice, or cause suffering and harm?  A strong first step would be to support the BREATHE Act. This proposed legislation would eliminate the federal government's ability to give multimillion dollar grants for the militarization of police forces, and calls for a “time-bound plan” to close all federal immigration detention centers. The Federal Bureau of Prisons' pandemic response has demonstrated a lack of regard for basic humanity that has created deadly conditions for those who are incarcerated.  Instead of a punishment paradigm, the BREATHE Act creates a new community public safety agency, which uses grants to replace the harmful criminal legal systems locally with evidence-based public safety infrastructure. Importantly, the act moves the function of public safety surrounding the war on drugs out of the Department of Justice and into the Department of Health and Human Services — signaling a dramatic shift in how our society approaches community well-being.  The investments that the BREATHE Act makes — in education, health care, the environment, wealth generation for working class families and housing — creates public safety by supporting communities rather than punishing them.  POLICING THE USA:A look at race, justice, media  If you truly want people to participate in society, you do not pass laws that keep them from doing so. More than 6 million people are not allowed to vote today due to a felony conviction, something the BREATHE Act would immediately change if passed.  We need to create space for budgets to be divested from police and prisons and invested directly into communities to address mental health needs, homelessness, access to critical education and rewarding jobs as well as community-based methods of accountability.  We know that prisons won’t be bulldozed tomorrow, and the complete elimination of the justice system can’t be done in one fell swoop. But in the meantime, people need to continue to confront the criminal justice system and face the harm of incarceration.  We are calling for the Biden administration to fundamentally shift their thinking and approach to make it possible for all communities to be safe and free.  Ashish Prashar is a justice reform campaigner who sits on the boards of the Exodus Transitional Community, Getting Out and Staying Out, Leap Confronting Conflict and the Responsible Business Initiative for Justice. He also worked for the Biden campaign. Follow him on Twitter: @Ash_Prashar Joe Biden, Black voters made you president. It's time to right wrongs on criminal justice.