Associated Press  PARIS – At least four migrants, including two young children, died Tuesday when their boat capsized while they and other migrants tried to cross the English Channel to Britain, French authorities said.  Fifteen migrants have been saved so far and rescue and search operations were still under way, according to the regional administration for the Nord region. It said in a statement that the dead were a 5-year-old and 8-year-old child, and an adult woman and adult man, and stressed that the toll so far is provisional pending further searches in the area.  Such crossings have become increasingly common in recent years, but confirmed deaths are rare.  French authorities mobilized five vessels and a Belgian helicopter nearby to help with the rescue after the migrant boat was reported in distress off the coast of Dunkirk, according to the regional French maritime agency. It had said earlier that 18 people were rescued and were receiving treatment in hospitals in Calais and Dunkirk. The reason for the different numbers of rescued migrants was not explained.  An investigation into the cause of the sinking was opened by the Dunkirk prosecutor.  French maritime officials routinely rescue migrants trying to cross the Channel and warn against the risky crossing.  Despite joint police efforts on both sides of the Channel, migrants have long used northern France as a launching point to get into Britain, and the issue has long strained relations between the neighbors. Last year French authorities said at least four people died trying to use small vessels to cross the Channel, known for high winds, strong currents and heavy maritime traffic.  British Home Secretary Priti Patel said she was “truly saddened to learn of the tragic loss of life in French waters this morning.”  “My thoughts and prayers are with their families and loved ones at this time,” Patel said in a statement.  “We are in touch with our French counterparts who are leading on the response and have offered whatever support they need as they investigate this incident,” she added. “This tragic news highlights the dangers that come with crossing the Channel and I will do everything I can to stop callous criminals exploiting vulnerable people.”  EU agency Frontex launches internal investigation after reports of migrant pushbacks  The European Union’s border and coast guard agency Frontex said Tuesday that it has launched an internal inquiry after media reports suggested that it is complicit in illegal pushbacks aimed at preventing migrants and refugees from entering Europe through the Greek islands.  Pushbacks are considered contrary to international refugee protection agreements. Under the principle of “non-refoulement,” people should not be expelled or returned a country where their life and safety might be in danger due to their race, religion, nationality or being members of a social or political group.  Media outlet Bellingcat reported that video and other data suggest Frontex “assets were actively involved in one pushback incident at the Greek-Turkish maritime border in the Aegean Sea, were present at another and have been in the vicinity of four more since March.”  Bellingcat said that while Frontex was not present at the other four incidents, “the signature of a pushback is distinctive, and would likely have been visible on radar, with visual tools common on such vessels or to the naked eye.”  Its findings were part of a joint investigation with Lighthouse Reports, Der Spiegel, ARD and TV Asahi.  “We are looking into the accusations levelled by several news organizations related to our activities at Greece’s external borders,” Frontex Executive Director Fabrice Leggeri said in a statement. He said that the EU agency does “not tolerate any violations of the fundamental rights in any of our activities.”  “So far, no documents or other materials have been found to substantiate any accusations of violations of the law or the Frontex Code of Conduct by deployed officers,” Leggeri said. The media outlets said their investigation was based on open source data, including Turkish coast guard video imagery.  Frontex said that its work in the eastern Aegean has been complicated by a dispute between Turkey and Greece over their maritime borders. Greek and Turkish coast guard ships are routinely involved in standoffs and threats in the relatively narrow stretch of water that separates the two countries. 2 children among 4 dead after migrant boat capsizes in English Channel