WASHINGTON — Newly released audio recordings of discussions between first lady Melania Trump and her former confidant and assistant reveal that she has expressed frustration over some of her White House tasks and the media's coverage of her.  Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, who wrote the book "Melania and Me" secretly recorded conversations with Trump in the summer of 2018 after Wolkoff left her role as an adviser, CNN reported Thursday night.  Discussing the legacy and reputation that the first lady has, Trump said that she is portrayed as "complicit" in her husband's actions as president.  "Who supports Melania? You do have a legacy..." Wolkoff said in the conversation. "In New York, it was always Melania, Melania, Melania."  "I don't give a f---. It's true, it's true. Honestly," Trump said in response. "I'm doing the same stuff that I did before. They cannot stand him. They know that I'm with him."  The first lady's press secretary Stephanie Grisham responded to the release of the recordings by questioning whether the recordings were edited.  “Her only intent was to secretly tape the First Lady in order to peddle herself and her salacious book. There is no way to know if these recordings have been edited and it’s clear the clips were hand-picked and presented with no context. The First Lady remains focused on her family and serving our country.”  Wolkoff told CNN's Anderson Cooper that the first lady is a "cheerleader" for Trump, and that "Melania holds her role like no other person in the White House. She doesn't shake in her boots ever, and she tells Donald exactly how she feels."  President, first lady await test results:Trump quarantining after White House adviser Hope Hicks tests positive for COVID  Trump expressed dismay at her role in decorating and promoting the White House during Christmas time, while she was being criticized for not doing more meaningful work.  "They say I'm complicit, I'm the same like him, I support him, I don't say enough. I don't do enough..." Trump said in July 2018. "I'm working my a-- off with the Christmas stuff that, you know, who gives a f--- about Christmas stuff and decorations but I need to do it, right?"  "And then I do it, and I say I'm working on Christmas and planning for Christmas and they say, 'What about the children that are separated?' Give me a f---ing break. Where they were saying anything when Obama did that?"  Trump has been scrutinized alongside President Donald Trump for his policies of separating children who cross the border illegally from their families. Former President Barack Obama's policy differed from that of the current president in that children were separated from parents only in rare circumstances. Donald Trump's "zero tolerance" policy created a blanket separation practice in order to prosecute parents.  When the first lady went to visit children in a migrant center in Texas in 2018, she drew backlash for wearing a green jacket with the words "I really don't care, do u?" on the back, which she in the recordings was "driving liberals crazy... and they deserve it" when asked why she bought it.  "I was trying to get the kid reunited with the mom. I didn't have a chance. It needs to go through the process and the law," she said in one recording.  In a conversation in June of that year, Trump said "it's sad" for children in shelters to be away from their parents, but said many of them are better taken care of in shelters than they would have been otherwise.  "They even said, the kids they said, 'Wow, I will have my own bed?... They are taken care nicely there, but yeah, they are not with parents and it's sad."  She made the claim that some people who come to the U.S. illegally are "using that lines" when they claim they will face violence if returned to their countries of origin. "They're teached by other people what to say to come over." 'They say I'm complicit': Former friend of Melania Trump releases profanity-laced audio of discussions about her legacy