Coronavirus cases continue to spike at a federal detention center and some in California's wedding industry adapt to the pandemic by downsizing. Plus: A father describes his frantic search for his wife and daughter lost in a wildfire.  I'm Cheri Carlson, a reporter at the Ventura County Star, with the news to know this Thursday.  But first, a months-old mountain lion cub is getting her roar back after recovering at a Southern California rehab center, according to the Los Angeles Times. The tiny cub couldn’t get much more than a squeak out when she was found by two firefighters near Idyllwild last month. She was taken to the San Diego Humane Society where she has doubled her weight in the past few weeks.  In California brings you top Golden State stories and commentary from across the USA TODAY Network and beyond. Get it free, straight to your inbox.  Coronavirus outbreaks grow at federal detention center, school  A coronavirus outbreak continues to grow at a federal immigration detention center in San Bernardino County.  Nearly 20% of the people detained at the Adelanto ICE Processing Center have tested positive for COVID-19, The Desert Sun reports. As of Wednesday, federal officials reported 148 active cases. For months, immigration attorneys, medical experts and detained immigrants have argued the facility was too crowded for social distancing.  In Shasta County, an outbreak at the Bethel’s School of Supernatural Ministry has led to a spike in coronavirus cases in Shasta County. As of Tuesday, the Redding megachurch reported 137 COVID-19 cases at the school since classes started in early September.  Amid the pandemic, a ‘micro wedding’ trend  As businesses continue to reel in the pandemic, some in the wedding industry have found ways to adapt.  California had about 240,000 weddings last year but may see just half as many weddings in 2020, The Desert Sun reports. That means a huge drop in associated spending, too.  But as some ceremonies are postponed, others have downsized. Palm Springs-area hotels, once full of hundreds of guests for weekend destination weddings, have put together elopement and “micro wedding” packages for couples.  Jane Chung, exchanged vows with Chris Gorman at Joshua Tree National Park. A pandemic-era wedding was not what she envisioned, but for Chung, eloping in the desert was as memorable as the Van Nuys couple could have hoped for. "It was just me, him and our puppy," she said. "It just made it super intimate and super loving. I felt like we were in our own little love bubble."  A frantic search for a wife, daughter lost in a wildfire; a haunting anniversary  The Zogg Fire in Northern California destroyed more than 200 structures and killed four people as it chewed through the oak-covered hillsides of Igo-Ono.  Two of the victims were Zach McLeod's wife and 8-year-old daughter. McLeod recounts the frantic search for his family, telling the Redding Record Searchlight he wants his wife and daughter to be remembered for their courage as they tried to drive to safety.  "My wife knew the danger of the situation and she was doing everything right," he said. "I'm so extremely proud of her. Her and Feyla are so brave. They're heroes to me just for what they went through and how bravely they fought through it. They just didn't curl up and fall and just hide. They did everything right."  Meanwhile, residents in Sonoma County marked an anniversary Wednesday. Hundreds of homes have been rebuilt since the Tubbs Fire tore through Sonoma County on Oct. 8, 2017, the San Francisco Chronicle reports.  The communities continue to face a threat of wildfires and local officials must decide how to spend money from a settlement with Pacific Gas and Electric Co. That means deciding among a range of urgent needs from vegetation management to a housing shortage made worse by wildfire destruction.  Fact-checking Harris and Pence; and a fly finds fame  So you listened to Vice President Mike Pence and California Sen. Kamala Harris debate last night, but did you catch any half-truths?  USA TODAY fact-checked the various claims made by Harris and Pence to find out where the two got it right and where they missed the mark.  And, what about that fly? It sat on the top of the vice president's head for several minutes and quickly became a star. Even before the debate was over, several Twitter accounts were created for the scene-stealing insect.  Merriam Webster wrote in a tweet that the word "fly" was trending on the dictionary's website "for quite possibly the first time."  Dodgers and Padres go at it again  Before we go: The Los Angeles Dodgers are a win away from their third National League Championship Series in four years. And, if tonight's Game 3 is anything like Wednesday's win over San Diego Padres, it won't be short on drama.  In California is a roundup of news from across USA TODAY Network newsrooms. Also contributing: Los Angeles Times and the San Francisco Chronicle. In California: Father describes frantic search for wife, daughter lost in a wildfire