Dave Paulson  Nashville Tennessean  The Country Music Association says it will "welcome every artist's right to express themselves" at next week's CMA Awards, after facing criticism for a social media post it made on Wednesday.  In that post, the organization said that one of the top reasons to watch this year's show was that it would contain "No drama, just music."  "It's been a year, y'all," the post reads. "But for three hours next Wednesday on ABC, this is a no drama zone. More than 20 one-of-a-kind performances will help you forget the weight of the world for just a little while."  That sentiment had its fans among CMA's followers, but the post was also widely criticized Thursday after it was pointed out by Nashville music journalist Marissa R Moss.  "Not every person feels comfortable to speak out, but NO ONE should be discouraged from doing so," said pop singer-songwriter Sara Bareilles. "I know many passionate country artists who should feel free to use ALL of their voice."  The CMA issued a response early Thursday afternoon.  "While our intentions with our social campaign was to communicate to our fans that the show will offer a brief escape, we recognize that our phrasing did not convey that message. We welcome every artist's right to express themselves."  The incident might remind some of the days leading up to the 2017 CMA Awards show, in the wake of the mass shooting at the Route 91 Harvest country music festival in Las Vegas.  That year, CMA's media guidelines for the show warned reporters not to ask artists at the ceremony about the shooting, gun control or political affiliations.  After widespread criticism — from prominent artists including that year's co-host Brad Paisley — the association apologized and lifted its restrictions.  In a genre whose stars are often mum on divisive issues, several prominent country artists have been sounding off on hot topics this year. Maren Morris — who's up for five awards next week — put her support behind the Black Lives Matter movement, immigrants and others with a new, self-described "protest song” called “Better Than We Found It.”  This year’s CMA Awards co-host Darius Rucker shared his thoughts on racism after the death of George Floyd, saying “The men who did that should face the justice that is promised by our laws.”  This year's CMA Awards are co-hosted by Reba McEntire and Darius Rucker. The show airs from Nashville's Music City Center Wednesday, November 11 at 7 p.m. ET on ABC. After criticism of 'no drama' post, CMA Awards say artists can indeed 'express themselves'