The Editorial Board  USA TODAY  In the end, it might have been too much even for a disciplined debater like Vice President Mike Pence to credibly defend a mismanaged health care crisis that has killed more Americans than any event since World War II.  It was never Pence's style, nor would it have been politically wise, to mimic the president's scorched-earth filibustering of last week's presidential debate — a tactic that trampled any coherent discussion and also turned off vast swaths of the viewing public, actually widening Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden's lead in the polls.  The more reserved Pence, a former congressman and radio talk-show host who heads the White House Coronavirus Task Force, played the kinder, gentler Trump in his face-off Wednesday with Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris at the University of Utah.  'In our hearts and in our prayers'  “I want all of you to know, you’ll always be in our hearts and our prayers," he said to the families of the nearly 212,000 who have died from the disease.  It was weak medicine for the reality of a pandemic so unrestrained that the White House itself has become an epicenter, with a president sickened by COVID-19 and stalking the West Wing on Tuesday potentially shedding virus. Pence offered little in response to the indictment by his opponent, a former prosecutor, that Trump chronically minimized the seriousness of the disease and failed to produce a plan for defeating it.  “The American people have witnessed what is the greatest failure of any presidential administration in the history of our country,” Harris said. Inexplicably, however, she failed to bring up Pence's prediction in April that "by Memorial Day weekend we will largely have this coronavirus epidemic behind us."  Even the debate's set design in Salt Lake City underscored the nation's No. 1 issue. Fear of infection kept the candidates more than 12 feet apart and separated by plexiglass shields. Audience members were distanced and strictly forbidden to remove their face masks.  By contrast, the president and Biden were separated by just over 6 feet in the Cleveland debate last week, and Trump's family members defied requests to wear face coverings. Since then, Trump, the first lady, growing numbers of White House staffers and allies have tested positive for COVID-19.  Oldest elected president  This was billed as arguably the most important vice presidential debate in history, given that Trump is 74 and ailing and that Biden, at 77, would be the oldest person elected president.  Moreover, the vice presidential debate could conceivably have been the final face-off of the campaign, considering lingering questions whether the presidential debates scheduled for Oct. 15 and Oct. 22 will take place as scheduled.  Pence scored more debate points when the topic wasn't coronavirus, often doing a better job of defending the Trump administration's record than Trump does himself. The vice president boasted of the administration's early economic successes and victories over the Islamic State terrorist organization.  In one particularly effective attack, he questioned how Biden could reverse Trump's signature tax cuts — as the Democrat has promised — and not raise taxes on middle-income Americans, also as promised. Harris didn't have a good answer.  As a politician vying to be the first female vice president and the first one of color, Harris' mission was to hold the Trump administration to account without appearing overly negative or aggressive, and risk turning off voters who research shows are less forgiving of such traits in women. She also needed to assure a capacity for stepping into the presidency at a moment's notice.  For the most part she succeeded, highlighting her immigrant parents and her service as California attorney general before election to the U.S. Senate. And whenever Pence began to talk over her, she kept him in check with a simple: "Mr. Vice President, I'm speaking."  Both nominees ducked some of the toughest questions from moderator Susan Page, USA TODAY's Washington bureau chief. When pressed by Pence, Harris notably refused to say whether Biden would try to expand the size of the Supreme Court if Democrats captured control of the White House and the Senate.  The evening's strongest takeaway — beyond the fly that landed on Pence's hair — was a reminder of what civilized political debate once was, before the era of Trump, and might well be again someday. Kamala Harris and Mike Pence clash, but in a civilized way