Kurt Bardella  Opinion columnist  A moment I keep returning to in my mind was the evening of Feb. 28, 2017, and the first address President Donald Trump delivered to a joint session of Congress. Coming weeks after what most observers characterized as a “dark” portrait of America in his inaugural address, this State of the Union-type speech had commentators like CNN’s Van Jones laughably declaring, “He became president of the United States in that moment, period.”  Polling revealed that 7 in 10 Americans viewed the speech as optimistic. This was the night that the “Trump curve” was born, exposing how ill equipped prognosticators and the public were to evaluate, analyze and contextualize what would follow throughout the next four years.  I fear Thursday night’s second and final debate between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden has all the ingredients for the Trump curve to come back into play.  Let’s revisit the so-called night that Trump became president. The moment that pundits had been waiting for since Mr. “grab 'em by the p---y” became the most powerful man in the world. The moment when Trump would breathe in the institution of the presidency and somehow be remade by it into a respectable, responsible and inspirational political figure.  Not a 'morning again in America' speech  In this address, the president declared:  ►“We've defended the borders of other nations while leaving our own borders wide open for anyone to cross and for drugs to pour in at a now unprecedented rate."  We don’t have open borders in America.  ►“We want all Americans to succeed, but that cannot happen in an environment of lawless chaos. We must restore integrity and the rule of law at our borders.”  We were not a lawless nation.  ►“To any in Congress who do not believe we should enforce our laws, I would ask you this one question: What would you say to the American family that loses their jobs, their income or their loved one because America refused to uphold its laws and defend its borders?”  This is the same “law and order” rhetoric Trump has weaponized in 2020 to protect white cops who kill unarmed Black men.  My immediate takeaway, as I said the following morning on NPR’s "Morning Edition," was that “if you were listening to the speech last night, it sounded like immigrants are criminals who come here to take your jobs, rape your women, kill your citizens and they need to be stopped.”  Yet there were pundits and the chattering class giving Trump “high marks.” Why? Because compared with his inaugural address, it was “better” and more “presidential.” The problem is that the address to Congress was littered with the mistruths, half-truths and outright lies that have become signature to any Trump-delivered speech. Not to mention the overt and blatant notes of racism and xenophobia.  A tawdry Round One: Biden vs. Trump debate was an embarrassment for America  If any other president had delivered such a speech on the floor of "The People’s House," it would be regarded as one of the most disgraceful performances in history. But it wasn’t. Why? Because Trump wasn’t being graded by historical context; he was being compared with the performance he gave just a month prior on Inauguration Day.  As we look to Thursday night’s debate, the stage is set for a repeat of what we saw in 2017. Trump is coming off a disastrous and damaging debate performance that left even Republicans shaken.  During the Sept. 29 confrontation, Trump obnoxiously interrupted Biden more than 70 times, prompting the Commission on Presidential Debates to change the rules for Thursday night. This time the candidates’ microphones will be muted during the two-minute periods when their opponent has the floor.  Better than last time is wrong measure  If what is past is prologue, if Trump manages to get through the debate without repeating his “interrupter in chief” performance, the stage could be set for a collective judgment that Trump performed better, that he improved. This would be the Trump curve in action, and employing it at this most crucial juncture would be a massive disservice to the American people.  Interruptions aside, during the first debate, Trump told a tsunami of falsehoods and lies. From the coronavirus to health care, the Biden family to election security, whatever the topic, Trump’s answers were wrapped in the lies and delusions that we’ve become all too familiar with. But just because we are used to them doesn’t make them any less destructive and immoral.  The first presidential debate:Presidential debate didn't help Trump catch Biden, but horror show scared America  This is the lens in which we should be contextualizing and analyzing his debate performance. If he lies, if he knowingly puts information into the public light that undermines public health, destabilizes our election or misleads the American people about their welfare, the performance should be labeled nothing short of an unmitigated disaster from someone who is not mentally fit to continue on as our commander in chief.  It doesn’t matter what happened in the last debate. It doesn’t matter if Trump manages to display some semblance of self-control. The words “compared with the last debate” have no place in this discussion. Debate coverage needs to be guided by truth and fact. Otherwise, we run the risk of repeating the same mistakes from that speech in 2017. Hopefully, we’ve learned something since then, because if not, we might end up reliving the same result from election night 2016.  Kurt Bardella is a member of USA TODAY’s Board of Contributors who served as the spokesperson and senior adviser for the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Republicans from 2009-13. He is also a senior adviser for The Lincoln Project. Follow him on Twitter: @kurtbardella For the final debate, forget the 'Trump curve.' Grade the president on facts and truth.