Jeffrey Schweers  Capital Bureau  In a scathing order ripping Florida's election system, a federal judge early Friday denied a request by several voting rights groups to give would-be voters another chance to register for the November election.  "Notwithstanding the fact that cinemas across the country remain closed, somehow, I feel like I’ve seen this movie before," Chief U.S. District Judge Mark Walker began in his 29-page decision. "Just shy of a month from election day, with the earliest mail-in ballots beginning to be counted, Florida has done it again."  Nonetheless, Walker said it was an "incredibly close call."  Florida's voter registration website crashed Monday, the day of the deadline to register, because of an "unprecedented" volume of requests, getting more than a million hits an hour. Secretary of State Laurel Lee, the state's chief elections officer, later extended the deadline to 7 p.m. Tuesday, allowing another 50,000 people to register.  “The Governor took quick and decisive action to ensure voter access to multiple registration options including online, in person, or through the mail," said Fredrick Piccolo, a DeSantis spokesman, in a statement. "There was no basis for federal courts to get involved and the Governor expected this outcome.”  Stuart Naifeh, representing organizations that sued Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and Secretary of State Laurel Lee for even more time, said they would not be filing an appeal: "With the election fast approaching, our clients are shifting their focus to getting their communities out to vote."  More:Federal judge weighs arguments in lawsuit over Florida voter registration system crash  Thousands of voters likely were barred from voting in November by Monday's online malfunction, Walker said, but "the state’s interest in preventing chaos in its already precarious—and perennially chaotic—election outweighs the substantial burden imposed on the right to vote."  He called Lee's extension a "half measure" with at least one major flaw — she didn't notify the public until after noon on Tuesday.  "This left less than seven hours for potential voters to somehow become aware of the news and ensure that they properly submitted their voter registration applications, all while also participating in their normal workday, school, family, and caregiving responsibilities," Walker said.  His biting conclusion: Walker noted that "every man who has stepped foot on the Moon launched from the Kennedy Space Center, in Florida. Yet, Florida has failed to figure out how to run an election properly — a task simpler than rocket science."  The coalition of progressive interest groups — including Dream Defenders, Florida Immigrant Coalition, New Florida Majority and Organize Florida — wanted to extend the deadline by another two days.  "Our view is that the judge generally recognized what the situation is, and the failure of the online registration system," Naifeh said. "He chalked up his decision to the state's past incompetence and not wanting to rely on the state to correct this."  Brad Ashwell, Florida director for All Voting is Local, an advocacy group that was not involved in the case, called the ruling a big setback for voters.  DeSantis and Lee "knew the website’s tendency to crash posed a danger to democracy, yet they did nothing," Ashwell said. "They had years of warnings but chose not to act ... their dereliction of duty is beyond inappropriate and inexcusable."  Florida law establishes the deadline for registration as 29 days before the general election, which in this case was 11:59 p.m. Monday. Potential voters who tried accessing the RegisterToVoteFlorida.gov website encountered error messages, were unable to complete applications, and thus could not register.  Walker also had to weigh whether he could rule on election law in the middle of an election cycle, especially so close to the election date.  "This case would be much different if the question before this Court solely dealt with the (Oct. 5) crash; if Defendant Lee had not extended the deadline, granting a preliminary injunction would give this Court little pause," Walker said.  Having only raw numbers comparing registration in 2018 to 2020, Walker concluded that "a significant number of potential voters were barred from registering even with the extension" and constituted a "substantial burden limiting the right to vote."  But the state's interest in "conducting an efficient and orderly election" counts even more, he concluded. Any surge in new voters due to an extended registration deadline might not show up in the poll books, and they would have to submit a provisional ballot, slowing the process at the polling places.  Walker repeatedly took the state to task for failing its citizens, yet again. Since the online registration system went live in 2017, it has crashed at least five times during high volume before pending book closing deadlines, and during the National Voter Registration Day.  "In this case, potential voters attempted to perform their civic duty, to exercise their fundamental right, only to be thwarted, once again, by a state that seemingly is never prepared for an election," Walker said. "Unfortunately for these potential voters, this Court cannot remedy what the state broke under these circumstances."  Contact Jeff Schweers at jschweers@gannett.com and follow him on Twitter @jeffschweers. Federal judge won't extend voter registration in Florida, criticizes state over failures