Susan Page believes debates are designed to help voters. To her, they aren't for the news media or the candidates.  By that standard, last week's presidential debate didn't make for a particularly good viewing experience.  Page, USA TODAY's Washington Bureau chief, presided over Wednesday's vice presidential debate between Mike Pence and Kamala Harris in Salt Lake City. Leading up to the debate, Page said she sought ways to create a different kind of conversation.  That task required a more aggressive moderation than she'd planned to allow equal speaking time for both candidates, and she had to cut a planned segment on immigration.  Still, Page was hopeful the debate was useful for voters.  "I didn't get answers to all the questions I had hoped to get," she told USA TODAY Editor-In-Chief Nicole Carroll after the debate. "I think sometimes I got prepared speeches instead of spontaneous responses — that shouldn't be a surprise."  Susan Page, in her own words:Page explains her "Thank you, Vice President Pence" approach and more  Pence repeatedly talked over Page, raising the question of whether the vice president would have treated a male moderator the same way. Page noted that Pence participated in the vice presidential debate four years ago with a woman moderator – and talked over her as well.  "I don't know that I've seen him in that kind of setting with a male moderator," Page said.  An analysis from CNN reported Harris and Pence were given nearly identical speaking time, with the Democratic senator from California clocking in at 36 minutes and 24 seconds and the Republican vice president speaking for just three seconds more.  Page was watching the time: She had clocks on her desk to show both candidates' speaking time. Her final tally: Harris had 30 more seconds to speak than Pence.  'I'm speaking' vs. 'If I may finish:' Pence, Harris spar over COVID-19 and other top moments from the VP debate  "Early on, it was clear it required more aggressive moderation than I had planned to keep it about equal," she said.  By the hour mark, it was obvious the debate was running over its allotted 90 minutes, said Page, the first print reporter selected by the Commission on Presidential Debates as a solo moderator.  While the vice presidential debate was more civil than last week's Donald Trump-Joe Biden presidential debate, interruptions from both sides were common, with Harris turning to Pence twice to tell the vice president she was still speaking as he tried to talk over her.  USA TODAY Editorial Board:Kamala Harris and Mike Pence clash, but in a civilized way  CBS News reported Pence interrupted Harris 10 times, compared to five interruptions from Harris.  Pence also frequently spoke over Page as she tried to tell him his time was up.  "I felt the only thing I could do was interject his time was up," Page said.  And, no, she said she didn't want a way to cut his microphone.  She added, "We set these rules so that the candidates can have a chance to speak. It's not my debate. It's their debate. It's the voters' debate."  Both candidates also dodged direct questions, at times. Page's job was not to ask follow-up questions or hold the candidates feet to the fire, she said. The debate isn't an interview or a news conference, where she normally would have followed up, she said.  Neither candidate answered a question about presidential disability, for example.  "Everything about a debate tells voters something," she said. "So, with both candidates, and especially with Vice President Pence, they didn't address the question I asked. That is frustrating to me because I spent a lot of time writing those questions. But, that is illuminating in its own way to voters, and that was the point."  Coronavirus was always going to be her first topic, she said. The two campaigns met and decided Harris would be the first person to answer, she said. Page drafted narrow questions, ones she thought would resonate with voters, in the hopes of getting direct answers.  "This was perhaps less successful than I'd hoped," she said after the debate.  'I'm speaking':Harris, Pence clash evident at vice presidential debate even with body language  Part of Page's preparation included a mock debate with "extremely rude" debaters, she said.  She implemented a key portion of the mock debate training when she had to rein in both candidates who were interrupting each other during a conversation about the military. She aggressively reminded the candidates of the rules they'd agree to and let them know it was time to get back on track.  Page did that once on Wednesday. In her mock debates, she did it "like three times."  "As we worked through the mock debate, I became more and more aggressive in trying to shut it down because nothing else was working," Page said.  Page said she was honored to be the moderator for Wednesday's debate.  "I hope that voters who watched it thought it helped them decide who has the policies they support," she said. "Who has the leadership characteristics that they want to see. I hope it helped voters. That's what I hope. So, you tell me if it was successful."  Contributing: Rebecca Morin, Jeanine Santucci and Erin Jensen, USA TODAY Moderator Susan Page hopes Mike Pence-Kamala Harris vice presidential debate was helpful for voters: 'That was the point'