The man who held the U.S. Senate seat now up for grabs in Arizona shared the spotlight with the candidates vying for it Tuesday night.  The name of the late U.S. Sen. John McCain, whose death left a vacant Senate seat that now-Sen. Martha McSally is running to keep, surfaced multiple times during the evening, most notably at one of the debate's key moments.  Mark Kelly, the Democratic candidate running against McSally, said that knowing McCain was an honor, and he found it hard to understand why McSally wouldn't speak up to defend him to President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly insulted McCain, even after his death.  McSally countered that she had, both publicly and privately, asked Trump to stop attacking McCain.  "Quite frankly, it pisses me off when he does it," McSally said.  The moment was one of several during the debate that showcased the two candidates, their differences and how they're campaigning. The event was the first opportunity Arizona voters have had to compare the candidates side by side.  McSally repeatedly said the race with Kelly would have significant implications, potentially deciding which party controls the Senate next year.  These were the top moments in Tuesday's first debate for the next U.S. senator from Arizona.  China a hot topic throughout debate  For an election to represent Arizona, the debate focused a lot on another country: China.  In some sense, McSally's repeated jabs at Kelly over his ties to China and whether he had the strength to stand up to the country, were a campaign mailer come to life.  The McSally campaign and supporting groups have sought to tie Kelly to China throughout the election cycle. They have taken hits at him for his work with a company that used taxpayer-subsidized seed money and capital funding from a Chinese technology company.  "We need someone who's going to be strong on China, not doing business with them," McSally said.  Kelly retorted that he would hold China accountable if elected and that he has seen China as an "adversary" for his entire adult life. Both said they saw China as a threat to national security.  McSally coins an insulting nickname  McSally referred to Kelly as "counterfeit Kelly" throughout the debate, a Trumpian insult meant to convey that Kelly is not honest about his views or what he will do if he takes office.  There's also a website based on the insult, paid for by the McSally campaign.  Kelly did not engage with the insult and did not respond with any kind of nickname of his own for McSally.  McSally also asked several questions directly to Kelly on particular issues, turning from the camera and addressing him during her time to respond to questions or rebut claims. Kelly responded to some of her questions, often while facing toward the camera, and ignored others.  McSally tried to tie Kelly to the "radical left" through the work of Giffords, an advocacy group focused on gun safety measures. But she would not state the name of the organization.  Kelly pounced on the opening.  "The organization that Sen. McSally is referring to is named after my wife, Gabby, Gabby Giffords. It's named Giffords. Gabby was injured, shot in the head, in 2011. The issue of gun violence is personal for Gabby and me," Kelly said.  Moderators push for answers  At certain moments, moderators pushed for more specific answers than the candidates initially offered.  For Kelly, it was questions over whether he supported ending the filibuster, something Democratic leaders have suggested and which Kelly has yet to weigh in on.  He didn't use the debate stage to share his thoughts on the idea. When pressed, he said he needed to hear from everyday Arizonans first to understand what they thought of it.  "This is something that might not even come up for discussion. And if it does, I'll spend some time thinking about it, and I'll make a decision based on what's right for Arizona," he said.  For McSally, questions about her support for Trump lacked clear answers.  When asked if she was proud of her support for Trump, she answered that she was "proud to be fighting for Arizona every single day."  She would not directly say whether she was proud to support Trump.  Shaking hands: A controversy  McSally accused Kelly of a specific incident involving a handshake, or more precisely, the lack thereof.  She alleged the vice president of the National Border Patrol Council put out his hand to shake Kelly's at an event last year. Kelly refused to do so, the story goes, and said the man was "one of them," seemingly meaning a part of Border Patrol.  She used the incident to attempt to show she was tough on immigration and border control.  "You won't shake their hand, but I have their back," she said.  Art del Cueto, the man in question, recounted this story on a radio show recently. Del Cueto has campaigned on behalf of Trump.  Kelly said it didn't happen.  "I will shake anybody's hand any time. ... I don't know where Sen. McSally gets this stuff from," he said.  The incident appears to be a "he said, he said" accusation.  'I'm your girl' vs. 'Independent leadership'  Throughout the debate, the candidates repeated phrases to drive home how they saw themselves and how they wanted Arizona voters to see them.  McSally spoke about her military experience and what they would get if they voted for her.  "I think I've shot the biggest gun of anybody in Congress," she said at one point.  At other times, she said that if Arizonans wanted tax cuts or someone to stand up to China, they should vote for her.  "I'm your girl," she said, more than once.  For Kelly, the repeated line was "independent leadership," perhaps an attempt to court independent voters who both campaigns need to win the election.  "We need independent leadership focused on solving hard problems," he said at one point,repeating a common refrain he used throughout the debate.  Reporters Ronald J. Hansen and Yvonne Wingett Sanchez contributed to this story. Trump 'pisses' McSally off with McCain comments: Top moments from debate with Mark Kelly in battleground Arizona