DeWayne Wickham  Opinion contributor  Kamala Harris walked onto the stage atop a Wilmington, Delaware, riverfront parking lot Saturday night as the opening act to the speech President-elect Joe Biden would give to a nation that had just handed him the keys to the Oval Office.  Her job was to warm up the hundreds of people assembled before her in socially distanced vehicles and the millions more who watched on television — but not to upstage Biden, whose masterful White House campaign consigned President Donald Trump to the ignominy of a one-term president who in two tries couldn’t win a majority of the votes cast by the American people.  Yet Harris got my attention in ways that Biden’s powerful words of national reconciliation did not. It happened in a section of her remarks that began with praise for her mother, an Indian immigrant who was a brilliant cancer researcher and foot soldier of this country’s civil rights movement. Shyamala Gopalan Harris “believed so deeply in an America where a moment like this is possible,” Harris said. “And so, I’m thinking about her and about the generations of women — Black women, Asian, White, Latina, Native American women who throughout our nation’s history have paved the way for this moment tonight.”  Smashing a glass ceiling for women  And in that moment — with those words — Harris became the evening’s main attraction for millions of women all over the world.  Kanan Lauzon, a 38-year-old mother of two, is the daughter of Indian immigrants who came to the United States in 1970. Shortly before Harris spoke Saturday, Lauzon, a talent acquisition manager for a defense contractor, told me of the connection she feels to the vice president-elect. “This is really very uplifting for me,” Lauzon said. “It shows that a woman of Asian descent has broken an important glass ceiling.”  Neera Tanden:Like Kamala Harris, I'm the daughter of an Indian immigrant. We are the American story  Lauzon isn’t unmindful of Harris' public embrace of her African American roots. A lot has been said about the pride Harris takes in Howard University, the historically Black higher education institution she attended, and about her membership in Alpha Kappa Alpha, this nation’s oldest Black sorority. Lauzon respects that part of Harris’ heritage. She just claims the part of Harris — her Indian heritage — in which she also takes great pride.  “I really want my daughters (ages 4 and 2) to see her up close. I would love to take them to the inauguration,” she said, as her husband, Brad, looked on with a warm smile. “It would be amazing for them to be a part of that moment.”  It’s a moment that I sensed was coming, 10 years ago.  Shortly after Harris was elected California’s attorney general, in 2010, I interviewed her about that big political achievement. In winning that job, Harris became the first woman and the first person who identified as African American to become the chief legal officer for this nation’s most populous state  What Harris was destined to be  Just about anyone who wins a statewide election in California gets a fast pass into the Washington political arena, though that is hardly an assurance of continued success. When I suggested to Harris that her new job and résumé — she was a civil rights activist and a prosecutor who pushed job training for nonviolent offenders and rehabilitation for ex-offenders — could take her far in Washington, she rejected my suggestion that she could be a new breed of national leader.  “I hope to serve this nation as the attorney general of California,” Harris told me. “I believe in that old adage that ‘as goes California, so goes the country.’ ”  To prepare for that state job, Harris assembled a transition team that was headed by two former U.S. secretaries of State — Republican George Shultz and Democrat Warren Christopher. “I wanted to have people who understand California in the context of the globe,” she explained.  Qualified and energizing:Joe Biden's VP choice of Kamala Harris signals return to American values and competence  All of this caused me to say in a December 2010 column that while Harris was “too smart to acknowledge that her sights are set on anything other than the job she’s about to take on," she was "destined to become a commanding presence in the political life of this country.”  What I couldn’t predict was just how much she would touch the life of Asian Americans like Kanan Lauzon, as well as the many women who find in her a piece of their own identity — and the inspiration to imagine new possibilities for themselves and their children.  DeWayne Wickham, a retired USA TODAY columnist, is dean of the School of Global Journalism & Communication at Morgan State University in Baltimore. Follow him on Twitter: @DeWayneWickham Kamala Harris is the main event for millions of women in America and around the world