FOREST HILLS, Pa. – A visit to a local grocery store turned ugly Sunday when Gisele Barreto Fetterman, the wife of Pennsylvania Lt. Gov. John Fetterman, said she was subjected to xenophobic and racist insults in a confrontation she captured briefly on video and posted to Twitter.  Gisele Fetterman, a formerly undocumented immigrant from Brazil who became an American citizen in 2009, said she went to an Aldi’s near her home to buy kiwis.  While standing in line to check out, Fetterman said she was accosted by a woman who said, “There’s that (n-word) that Fetterman married” and called the state's second lady a thief who did not belong here.  Fetterman, 38, said she was unaccompanied by her “amazing” security team because the family was in on a rainy Sunday night and she was just darting out “for what I thought would be a five-minute trip to the grocery store.”  John Fetterman is the former mayor of Braddock, and the couple still live there with their three children.  On Monday, Fetterman told the USA TODAY Network that the woman would hurl insults, walk away and then return to continue the verbal barrage. A woman standing behind her asked if she was alone and warned her to not walk to her car alone, Fetterman said.  She was too upset to notify employees, Fetterman said. “I just wanted to get out of there and get home,” she said.  Read more on race and identity: Sign up for USA TODAY’s This Is America newsletter  Fetterman said she paid for her kiwis and looked for the woman, but did not see her. As she was backing her car out of her parking space, Fetterman said the woman came out of the store empty-handed and headed for her car.  Shaking and crying, Fetterman said she reached for her phone to record the incident, but only managed to capture the last few seconds in which the woman pulls down her mask and says, “You’re a (n-word).”  Since Sunday’s incident, Fetterman said she has heard from other residents who reported similar racist incidents with the woman, some involving children.  “This behavior and this hatred is taught,” Fetterman posted on Twitter on Sunday. “If you know her, if she is our neighbor or relative, please, please teach her love instead.”  Fetterman reiterated those feelings on Monday, saying that she worries the woman could be teaching her grandchildren how to hate others.  “She does not reflect the majority and there’s comfort in that,” Fetterman said. “I only love my country more. It just makes me want to fight more for my country.”  Fetterman said her state police security team is investigating the incident.  Gov. Tom Wolf released a statement Monday condemning the incident and saying Fettermanhas the “full support” of him and his wife, Frances.  “Racism and hate speech are always unacceptable, and unworthy of Pennsylvanians,” Wolf said  “No Pennsylvanian should ever be made to feel unwelcome in our commonwealth because of their race or ethnicity,” Wolf added. “Gisele Fetterman spends much of her time devoted to making our state and world a better place and she – and every Pennsylvanian – deserves our respect, not the hatred too often displayed by people who seek only to further divide this country at a time when unity is so desperately needed.  John Fetterman replied to that tweet with one of his own, saying that he was "deeply grateful" to Wolf for supporting his wife.  U.S. Sen. Bob Casey, D-Scranton, posted about the incident on Twitter Sunday night.  “Today at the grocery store, PA’s Second Lady @giselefetterman was subjected to a racial slur and taunts. As she said: ‘this hatred is taught.’ It’s on us to teach our children kindness, acceptance and inclusion, and condemn hate whenever and wherever we see it,” Casey wrote.  Follow J.D. Prose on Twitter @jdprose. 'This hatred is taught': Gisele Fetterman, Pennsylvania's second lady, records racist insults aimed at her