In a south Phoenix strip mall near a Chinese restaurant and cell phone store, sits a new office designed to mobilize Latino voters and convince them to vote for President Donald Trump in November.  Outside the front doors, the words "Latinos for Trump" are written in chalk on the sidewalk.  The windows of Latinos for Trump are adorned with photos of Latinos and core values the Trump campaign believes will attract this group of voters: faith, family, opportunity.  President Donald Trump's fifth visit to Arizona this year, set for Monday, centers on Latino voters, who both presidential candidates are courting as the state increasingly becomes a battleground.  The president was scheduled to host a Latinos for Trump roundtable at the Arizona Grand Resort in Phoenix on Monday, after spending time earlier in the day in California getting a wildfire update.  In advance of the Arizona visit, about 30 volunteers gathered at the office, which opened this summer, to hear how they could attract Latinos when they speak to other voters.  The coalition says it has about 1,200 volunteers throughout Arizona.  Latinos for Trump, which also has offices in Tucson and Yuma, boasts a full calendar of voter engagement activities, such as door knocking, watch parties and phone banks. The office includes literature for local Republican candidates and signature teal-and-red signs with the group's name.  Pam Kirby, a former Scottsdale school board member who is on the advisory board for Latinos for Trump, said the centers serve as a public statement from the president that he cares about Latino voters.  "He's walking the talk. He doesn't just sit in DC and say, yes, I value the Latino vote. He's actually making financial investments," Kirby said.  On its website, Latinos for Trump shares key issues in Trump's platform that the group says align well with Latino voters: freedom, faith, family, economy, jobs and opportunity.  "Latinos for Trump are mobilizing to re-elect President Donald. J. Trump by sharing the historic gains made in Latino communities as a result of the Trump administration," the group's website said. "Re-electing President Trump will ensure economic opportunity, safer communities and religious liberty for generations to come."  Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for president, has not yet visited Arizona this cycle. His running mate, Sen. Kamala Harris, appeared at a virtual event in Arizona on Saturday. Jill Biden, the candidate's wife, also held a virtual event last week in Arizona.  This isn't the first coalition associated with the Trump campaign that's working to make inroads with specific subsets of voters.  Another group that called itself Latter-day Saints for Trump was on hand for a visit from Vice President Mike Pence last month as part of efforts by the Trump campaign to reach out to religious voters. The use of the church's name for a group that is not affiliated with the church angered some LDS voters in Arizona, who said the group's name was "out of bounds."  Another group called Women for Trump works to engage female voters.  Trump's actions and words, especially on immigration policies involving the border wall and the future of Dreamers — young immigrants brought to the U.S. as children — have frequently drawn fire from Latinos.  While he was running for president in 2015, he commented that Mexico wasn't sending its "best" to the U.S.  "When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people," he said.  Campaigns court Latino voters  Latinos are projected to make up almost one-fourth of Arizona's voters this year, one of the highest shares of Latino voters in the country, according to the Pew Research Center.  Both presidential campaigns are trying to engage Latino voters in Arizona. Some have criticized the Biden campaign for being slow to reach out to Latino voters, although efforts to engage Latino voters have ramped up in recent weeks.  For instance, a new ad from the Biden/Harris campaign features Phoenix chef Silvana Salcido Esparza, owner of Barrio Cafe, who speaks in both English and Spanish about struggling to keep her restaurant open through the pandemic.  Historically, Latinos have overwhelmingly voted for Democrats. In the 2018 midterm elections, 69% of Latinos voted for Democratic candidates in congressional races, compared with 29% of Latinos who voted for Republican candidates, according to Pew Research Center.  But in Arizona, where the presidential race is seen as increasingly tight, especially for a historically red state, peeling off some voters who traditionally have supported Democrats could pay off.  Kirby said Latinos for Trump has signed up new voters and met Latinos who typically vote for Democrats who have switched their parties.  "They see Latinos standing up as conservatives, and they realize we share the same values. They are switching from Democrat to Republican," she said.  Biden campaign ramps up Latino outreach  In August, the Biden campaign launched the Arizona Latino Leaders Council, a group of more than 30 Latino leaders tasked with engaging Latinos across the state. The group includes Rep. Ruben Gallego, Rep. Raúl Grijalva, state House Minority Leader Charlene Fernandez and Tucson Mayor Regina Romero, all of whom are co-chairs of the council.  The campaign also released an "agenda for the Latino community," which includes priorities that the Biden administration would undertake if they win the office.  These priorities include economic mobility plans, investments in improving health disparities, expanding access to quality education and overhauling the immigration system.  Harris held a virtual roundtable event on Saturday with Latino small business owners.  Election 2020:Kamala Harris tells AZ biz group 'immigrants have too much at stake' to sit out election  Romero told The Arizona Republic that the Biden campaign has made strong efforts to reach out to Latino leaders and involve them in engaging Arizona Latino voters instead of parachuting in like candidates sometimes do.  She believes the campaign sought input from Latinos and came up with a well-defined policy agenda that will meaningfully benefit Latinos. She pointed to ads running in both English and Spanish. The campaign is dropping off literature at voters' homes and finding ways to boost turnout and engagement, she said.  The Arizona advisory council, which she co-chairs, meets every week, she said.  "We're listening to leaders, not just elected leaders, but community leaders throughout Arizona to hear what their interests are and how we can get better to get to the population," Romero said.  She sees Trump's visit and attempts to engage Latino voters as hypocritical. She described actions she said have hurt Latinos, such as Trump's efforts to build a more robust border wall, attempts to end protections for Dreamers, pardoning former Sheriff Joe Arpaio on a criminal contempt conviction and a failed response to COVID-19.  "The effects of his words should carry strong with Latinos, especially here in Arizona. I think it is maximum hypocrisy of Trump doing outreach to Latinos here in Arizona," Romero said.  Latinos for Trump centers mobilize volunteers  Several speakers at the Saturday gathering shared how their loved ones or friends often were shocked to hear they voted Republican.  Kirby thanked the crowd for showing that it is "OK to be a Latino Republican."  Art del Cueto, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, said he talks to family members and asks why they're voting a certain way, and it sometimes sounds like they haven't thought much about the reasons they're voting for a candidate.  "I think a movement like this is important because it gives the individual the right to think for themselves, not just think what somebody in their family had told them, or not just to think what some headlines in the news media told them," he said.  Del Cueto implored volunteers to make sure they and their loved ones weren't complacent this election. Sitting at home is not an option. Promise yourself to bring 10 voters each to the polls, he told them.  Sergio Arellano, a veteran and business owner who is on the Latinos for Trump advisory board, said that it used to be rare to find Latino Republicans. But he's seen involvement grow over the past few years as efforts to reach out to Latinos have increased, he said.  Pocketbook issues like jobs, unemployment and business opportunities come up with voters more than immigration, Arellano said.  He told the group gathered on Saturday that he's had liberals on social media dismissively say that Trump doesn't care about him or other Latino voters.  Trump wouldn't be coming to Phoenix to talk to Latino voters if he didn't care, Arellano said.  Tatiana Peña, who is running as a Republican for the Arizona House in Legislative District 27, echoed the idea.  "If he hates Latinos, why is he here? If he hates Latinos, why is he coming on Monday to talk to Latinos?" she told the crowd.  Reporters Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Daniel Gonzalez contributed to this story.  Reach reporter Rachel Leingang by email at rachel.leingang@gannett.com or by phone at 602-444-8157, or find her on Twitter and Facebook.  Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today. Trump campaign courts Latino voters in Arizona, historically Democrats. Here's what that looks like