MONTGOMERY, Ala. — The University of Alabama Board of Trustees voted this week to rename a campus hall that honored a white supremacist.  Trustees voted unanimously to rename Morgan Hall, named for U.S. Sen. John Tyler Morgan in 1910, to the English Building for the time being. Trustee John England said Thursday he hopes the building will be renamed for an "appropriate individual" in the future.  A Confederate general, Morgan later served for three decades in the Senate. He was known for his expansionist policies, playing a large role in what would eventually become the Panama Canal, and England noted that Morgan successfully lobbied Congress for a large and profitable land grant that substantially contributed to the university.  But England said trustees who reviewed Morgan's history agreed he was an "ardent white supremacist."  While speaking on the floor of the U.S. Senate in 1890 against a bill designed to protect voting rights, Morgan said the "condition of the country would be better" without the 15th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which guarantees voting rights to men regardless of race or color.  More:As calls to remove Confederate monuments grew louder, states passed new laws to protect them  "He referred to African Americans as 'rats' from the floor of the U.S. Senate and said slavery was the 'highest point the Negro race could achieve.' Of course, that means me," said England, who is Black. "As our research confirmed, Sen. Morgan laid the groundwork for the Jim Crow laws that would disenfranchise African Americans for decades."  England also noted Morgan's staunch advocacy for "mass immigration for African Americans" as an attempt to "send us out of this country we worked to help build."  Some campus members have long advocated for renaming myriad buildings and landmarks on the University of Alabama campus with direct ties to white supremacists and the Confederacy, a government specifically founded on the idea of white supremacy. Students have for years petitioned for the renaming of Morgan, while academics such as associate professor Hilary Green have devoted scholarship to researching the university's direct ties to slavery.  In the wake of a massive civil rights movement this summer — sparked by the police killing of George Floyd and subsequent national discussions of systemic racism throughout the country — institutions such as UA have finally moved to officially address those concerns.  A summer petition circulated by UA students drew more than 17,000 signatures urging university leaders to rename buildings named for slave owners and white supremacists. The school's Student Government Association soon urged administrators to take action.  More:University of Alabama to remove plaques that honor Confederates, study renaming buildings  On June 8, President Pro Tempore Ronald Gray appointed a working group of trustees to study the history of campus landmarks and building names. A day later, the school removed plaques honoring Confederate soldiers on the campus quad.  In August, trustees voted to rename Nott Hall, a building housing UA's honors college. The hall honored Josiah Clark Nott, a physician and fervent defender of slavery who had tenuous connection to the university.  Opinion:While Auburn hides behind law, Troy University takes racist name off building  But some on campus are calling for additional transparency and input in the working group's process.  Following the renaming of Nott Hall, an employee union chapter released a statement that state workers were "disappointed" to not have a seat at the table during discussions. United Campus Workers also said they were "outraged" that the hall was renamed to the generic Honors Hall instead of commemorating a Black Alabamian who has contributed to the university and Alabama.  In a board resolution officially adopting the name change, trustees announced UA plans to display a plaque in the location where Morgan's portrait once hung inside the hall. The plaque will feature the following language: University of Alabama trustees vote to rename hall that honored 'ardent white supremacist'