You can get an AncestryDNA kit for less than $50 for Amazon Prime Day 2020  AncestryDNA kits will show different results for different people. Why? Science. (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar)  — Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us a commission.  Most people want to learn more about their family history. From discovering one's ethnic roots to learning whether or not they might be at risk for certain genetic health conditions, at-home DNA testing is often the first step in unraveling the mysteries of your own lineage. And right now is a great time to try it, since you can get huge savings on the brand's most popular kit for Prime Day.  Need help finding products? Sign up for our weekly newsletter. It’s free and you can unsubscribe at any time.  Through Wednesday, October 14, you can get the basic AncestryDNA test kit, originally $99, for $49, so you'll be saving $50. This is lower than last year's Black Friday deal, where it dropped to $59, so you're really getting an incredible price here.  How to use AncestryDNA  Using a DNA kit might seem complicated but the process is actually quite simple. To start, you'll spit in a special tube, which is included in each kit. Once you've filled it up, you can send your sample back to the lab using the pre-packed mailer (included with each purchase).  Your results won't be instantaneous—it can take a few weeks to get a full report back, and shipping times may currently take longer due to COVID-19, but once you do, you'll get the full enchilada. I'm talking access to all kinds of data, from your ethnicity to your ancestor's migration patterns and so much else. Because AncestryDNA draws from a database of more than 15 million people internationally and 350 regions around the globe, you're bound to get some very accurate insights into your familial heritage. And that's just the tip of the iceberg.  CLOSE Heard about AncestryDNA but nervous to try it out yourself? Two of our employees took the test to find out how it works and if it's worth it. Reviewed.com  Should you try AncestryDNA?  A DNA testing kit doesn't just offer you insights into your own unique genetic makeup—it can reveal long-lost or forgotten aspects of your family's history as well. Typically, you'd have to be a professional (or budding) genealogist to uncover such incredible things about your ancestors, but AncestryDNA makes the whole process much more accessible. Instead of combing through old Census records to learn about your great-, great-grandparents, you can let AncestryDNA do it for you—and trust me, the results are pretty wild.  What is ThruLines?  As someone who's used AncestryDNA before, I personally enjoyed the service and the clarity it gave into my personal genealogy. But far and away, my favorite part of using AncestryDNA was building out my family tree using the ThruLines feature, which is an add-on function that can complement your AncestryDNA gift membership (starting at $99 for a six-month membership). This extra facet of the service grants you access to all kinds of historical data: birth announcements, death notices, even immigration information.  For example, I was able to actually look at my great-grandmother's records from Ellis Island. Prior to that, I didn't know much about her—through my father, I knew that she was Irish, had been a coal miner at one point and came to America by herself in the late 1920s, when she was almost 30. Through AncestryDNA, however, I was able to discover that her family was originally from County Donegal in Ireland and that she was the first in her immediate family to emigrate. Later on, she must have sent for her parents because they eventually died in Worcester, Massachusetts, in the early 1960s—the same city I was born in some 30 years later.  You never know what you'll learn. (Photo: AncestryDNA)  With access to data through the ThruLines feature, my great-grandmother and other distant relatives suddenly came to life in vivid ways I never thought possible, which was wonderful. While I technically could have found this information on my own with a little more sleuthing, this service made it much easier and saved me a lot of time.  I also learned some less than ideal information: Through my mother, I'm a direct descendant of Thomas and Ann Carr Putnam—two of the main accusers during the Salem Witch Trials, who appear as antagonists in Arthur Miller's The Crucible.  When I'd learned all I could learn, I was able to cancel my Thrulines membership without any hassles. Better yet, I still have my full family tree—none of that information was lost just because I stopped paying the additional monthly fee. Another benefit to using AncestryDNA is that the company is constantly refining results as more people sign up for the service. That means that while your DNA test results are liable to change somewhat over time, you'll always get the most accurate readings, too.  This Prime Day, you have a chance to discover this incredible service and stay in-budget. Save a little money, discover more about the past and pick up the perfect holiday gift. Talk about a good deal!  The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.  Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.  Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/reviewedcom/2020/10/13/amazon-prime-day-2020-get-ancestry-dna-kit-less-than-50/3558792001/ You can get an Ancestry DNA kit for less than $50 for Amazon Prime Day 2020