FREEHOLD, N.J. — A Montclair, New Jersey, man was arrested Tuesday and charged with stealing more than $400,000 from his Asbury Park hotel employer, authorities said.  Larry Dembrun Jr., 40, is accused of stealing $486,882 from Salt Hotels between January 2018 and June by issuing numerous unauthorized checks to pay a personal credit card and other expenses, Monmouth County Prosecutor Christopher J. Gramiccioni said in a statement.  According to the statement, Dembrun was a regional manager with the company who oversaw The Asbury hotel, Asbury Lanes and the Asbury Ocean Club in which he was given full responsibility for managing all three facilities, reports the Asbury Park Press, which is a part of the USA TODAY Network.  The theft was discovered during an internal audit, leading to a joint investigation by the Monmouth County Prosecutor’s Office and Asbury Park police, Gramiccioni said.  Did you see? 124 immigrant children held in 3 Phoenix hotels under Trump policy, court records show  During the investigation, it was revealed that Dembrun also issued unauthorized checks to members of the hotel staff after officials reviewed his personal bank accounts, according to Gramiccioni.  Dembrun stole funds from the company in a number of ways, Gramiccioni said. These tactics included writing unauthorized checks from the hotel's "operating account" to pay for his personal American Express credit card bill, which totaled to $159,898.  In addition, he also withdrew $165,144 in cash and then deposited the money into his personal checking account.  "(Dembrun) also issued unauthorized payroll checks to himself in the amount of $12,603," Gramiccioni said. "During the relevant time period, Dembrun also took cash from the Asbury Lanes expense account in the amount of $51,150 and kept cash that should have been deposited in the amount of $6,791."  Dembrun also wrote "bonus" and "incentive" checks to the hotel staff, which totaled $91,295, according to Gramiccioni. All of these actions were unauthorized and violated company policy.  Dembrun was charged with second-degree theft, a crime that carries a penalty of five to 10 years in prison upon a conviction.  The case has been assigned to Assistant Prosecutor Diane Aifer of the Prosecutor's Office.  Joshua Chung is the 9-5 breaking news and weather reporter. A lifelong Jersey Shore resident, he is a recent graduate of Michigan State University. Contact him at jchung@gannettnj.com, 917-703-9373 or on Twitter @Joshchunggg  In case you missed:A New Jersey beach hotel made massive renovations, then the pandemic hit. What happens next?  Noted:What it's like to stay at a Hilton, Marriott and Hyatt hotel during the COVID-19 pandemic New Jersey man charged with stealing over $480,000 from Asbury Park hotel, authorities say