USA TODAY  As a voter in battleground Wisconsin, I voted early and in person for President Donald Trump. He is the one who can ensure law and order in the country, while helping the economy recover from the pandemic.  People deserve safety and security. When riots erupted in Kenosha and Gov. Tony Evers failed to act quickly, Trump authorized resources, including National Guard troops and federal law enforcement officers, to help combat the violence and to restore order. His actions sent a message that he is swift and strong — just what Wisconsinites need.  During the ongoing pandemic, while Wisconsin’s governor imposed a stay-at-home order and capacity limits that adversely affected businesses, Trump took decisive steps to foster public-private partnerships to make ventilators and personal protective equipment available to clinical workers, worked to promote evidence-based solutions in the battle against coronavirus, skillfully negotiated financial relief packages, and kept consumer confidence up.  For Wisconsinites looking for safety and economic security, Trump is the right choice for president. Wisconsin should award its 10 electoral college votes to the incumbent.  — Tawsif Anam; Madison, Wis.  After completing my mail-in ballot, I looked at the name Donald Trump. The first thing that came to mind was his approval rating of 44%. Then I thought of what a self-centered nasty name-caller he is. He has driven away female voters. I hold him personally responsible for the deaths of more than 230,000 Americans because of his inability to lead this nation through COVID.  He continually tries to undermine the Affordable Care Act, just as he does the Postal Service in an effort to sabotage voting by mail. He preaches and practices racism. He shows unimaginable cruelty toward immigrants, including the more than 500 children who don’t know where their parents are. His selection of unqualified family members to key government positions is criminal. It is very sad to see his ignorance toward science and climate change. He is as much a tax dodger as he is a liar. His impeachment on charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress exposed just how little regard Trump has for the Constitution. So why would anyone vote for a person like this?  What Trump has done to the Republican Party will take years to undo. The Texas Trump supporters who attacked former Vice President Joe Biden's campaign bus on a highway speak volumes about how far the party has degenerated. It will be hard for them to dig out of this hole. It began when Republican Senators during the impeachment trial voted to bless Trump’s violations of the Constitution. It has been downhill ever since.  — Maurice Skibba; Arvada, Colo.  For more than three decades, Rush Limbaugh has arguably been the most influential conservative in America. His passion and ability to articulate his views have inspired so many on both the right and the left. For many, he is an American icon and a legend. Love him or hate him, he is a power to be reckoned with.  As many are aware, Limbaugh has been battling cancer, and putting up a courageous fight. For the first time I can remember, he left his show early. It is heartbreaking to see this as we know the difficulties he is facing. We must wish him and all who suffer from this malady the very best and God's blessings.  Limbaugh did convey a very important point before he left the show, and that was to make sure you vote in this very consequential election. So let's honor his wish. Cast your ballot for whomever you think will lead this country through medically and financially tumultuous times.  — Bob Gault; Flagstaff, Ariz.  President Donald Trump says he will send lawyers into Pennsylvania and that he doesn't think mail-in ballots should be counted in that state after Election Day. I did not serve my country to have a draft-dodging president disqualify my vote and the votes of my fellow countrymen. And that's what his attempt at voter suppression amounts to — a man trying to dodge reality one more time.  — Curtis Howard Bonser; Mechanicsburg, Pa.  Will the unbonded people in jail who are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty be allowed to vote on Tuesday?  As a former Alabama mayor from 1984 to 1988, I remember our police department locking up many in our county jail who couldn't afford bail. Now, with age and hopefully more sensitivity to others, I have asked the above question. And I also wonder what our U.S. Supreme Court, which now leans conservative, would rule on this concern.  — Mike Sawyer; Denver  President Donald Trump as the great disrupter has threatened the political status quo of deep state bureaucrats, public policy pundits and corporate globalists. It is no more the case in the 2020 election cycle as it was in 2016 that the electorate is tired of politics as usual: tired of the status quo, positional flip flops, verbal word salads and financial self-aggrandizing.  Former Vice President Joe Biden is surely a return to the normal. But normal political backroom dealings are no more attractive now than they were four years ago. Character is on the ballot and Biden, as a long-standing member of Washington politic, has failed the test.  — Jeff Scrima; Waukesha, Wis.  Since President Donald Trump’s surprise win in 2016, much has been written about the "shy" Trump voter. It has been postulated that Trump’s true support, and eventual vote count, is underestimated because some people are too embarrassed to tell an anonymous pollster that they support such an odious man.  But not enough has been written about the "shy" voter for former Vice President Joe Biden.  These are disaffected Republicans and right-leaning independents repulsed by Trump, but bound by past voting allegiance and family tradition to support Republican candidates. These people are embarrassed to admit to friends and family members that they want to abandon their party or ideological orientation and vote for the progressive candidate.  It seems quite conceivable that these "shy" Biden voters will offset the "shy" Trump voters. If this happens, look for the final popular vote count to quite closely reflect Biden's final polling margin. And, if this happens, election 2020 will be a "blow out" win for Biden. Stay tuned!  — Ken Derow; Swarthmore, Pa.  I am writing this letter as an emotional appeal to the voters. On Tuesday, the people will make a decision that will shape our country for generations to come, and it is very important to elect a person who will use intelligence, empathy and humility while in the Oval Office. That person is former Vice President Joe Biden.  The Trump circus has gone on way too long. We need a president who will take responsibility for his handling of a crisis like the coronavirus. We need someone who will trust the people on his staff to do what they were brought on to do and not just decide to do whatever he wants. Finally, we need a president who will not incite hatred. I really feel that Biden can be the person who can bring the citizens of our country back together by listening to the experts on subjects like coronavirus and work with legislators in Congress on both sides of the aisle.  Our country needs a major change in philosophy. We need to bring back the love and respect for each other, something that has always made our country great. If Biden is elected and is able to restore civility, my only regret would be that the more than 230,000 people we have lost to this virus would not be here to see it.  — Craig Barto; Girard, Pa.  No other American president in our history has threatened the integrity of our elections or cast doubts on their outcomes as much as President Donald Trump.  Trump has screamed that the election is rigged, that there is illegal voting, and that mail-in ballots cast for him are being trashed. Conservatives on the Supreme Court, rather than broadening voting rights and allowing mail-in ballots to be received after Election Day, are invalidating them and casting doubt on the fate of others. What about absentee ballots from military personnel that will be counted after Election Day? What about states' rights to conduct elections as they see fit?  There seems to be no concern by these conservative justices about how invalidating votes that may favor Biden might cast doubt on the court's credibility. They seem to be operating with a great deal of arrogance and thumbing their noses at the American voter. If Trump gets a second term, it would appear that it will be through the federal court system, not because of votes. This election more than any other in our history resembles the kind of corrupted elections that occur in the Ukraine and Belarus. It did not take long for Trump and his supporters to severely damage the integrity of our elections.  — George Magakis Jr.; Norristown, Pa. Election Day, Rush Limbaugh and voting by mail: Readers sound off