Paul Brandus  Opinion columnist  There's a lot we don't know yet about this consequential 2020 election, but already there are lessons to be learned from it:  ►Midterm elections aren’t necessarily predictive of presidential election years. President Donald Trump’s name wasn’t on the ballot in 2018, but Democrats succeeded in making it about him anyway. And what happened? A blue wave election that flipped the House of Representatives and put the speaker’s gavel in Rep. Nancy Pelosi's hands.  This gave never-Trumpers hope that the 2020 election — when Trump's name would be on the ballot — would produce a similar wave. But Ronald Reagan was shellacked in the 1982 midterms and won re-election just two years later in a landslide. Bill Clinton’s Democrats took a drubbing in the 1994 midterm, losing control of both the House and Senate, but Clinton was easily reelected — with 379 electoral votes — two years later. And most recently, Democrats were thrashed in the 2010 midterms, while President Barack Obama went on to win 332 electoral votes and reelection in 2012.  There's no blue wave  This much is already clear in 2020: There was no blue wave. Thanks to narrow wins by Maine’s Susan Collins and Iowa’s Joni Ernst, as well as South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham's surprisingly comfortable victory margin, Republicans may even hang on to the Senate — a crushing blow for Democrats.  ►Spending the most money isn’t always predictive. Hillary Clinton spent twice as much as Trump four years ago. How did that work out?  This time around was similar. Joe Biden raised enormous amounts of money: nearly three-quarters of a billion dollars in August and September combined, for example. It may get him to 270 electoral votes and the presidency, but that kind of cash raised hopes for a resounding outcome that's not in the cards.  The Trump campaign, meanwhile, burned through much of its cash early and by October was struggling financially. Yet he far outperformed expectations.  Election chaos: Keep calm, keep counting and get to work  And speaking of South Carolina's Senate race, that may be the starkest example of how money can be overrated. Democratic challenger Jaime Harrison raised more than $100 million, including $57 million during the final full quarter of the campaign, the most in a single quarter than any Senate candidate in history — by far. What did that get him? About 42% of the vote. Graham, who was reduced to begging for cash on Fox, last night had the last laugh about his easier-than-expected romp.  ►The Black vote and Hispanic vote are neither monolithic nor automatically in the Democratic camp. There had been alarm bells in Florida for weeks about how Biden looked weaker than expected in Miami-Dade, the Sunshine State’s biggest county. He won it, but didn’t run up the score like he needed to. “There is not the turnout here [Miami] in the black community that I’ve seen in the past,” state Sen. Oscar Braynon, a Black Miami Democrat, told Politico last weekend. “I can speculate about the reasons, but the fact is it remains concerning.”  Slicing and dicing the Hispanic vote  The pandemic appears to have played a key role. The Biden campaign discouraged staffers from knocking on doors and talking face-to-face with voters; the Trump campaign plowed ahead.  Meantime, Trump appears to have done a good job of slicing and dicing among the state’s diverse Hispanic groups. Cuban-Americans, Puerto Rican-Americans, and such aren’t the same and have their own individual concerns. Many Cubans who fled communist persecution, for example, always want to hear about political freedom, economic opportunity and so forth. Many Hispanics also like Trump's pro-business reputation, his anti-regulatory stance, and the perception (which isn't true) that he's a religious guy.  To our next president: 10 priorities for fixing our justice system  Some Hispanics also approve of the president's crackdown on undocumented immigrants. That was instrumental in his Florida win.  When all the dust settles, Biden will still easily win the Black and Hispanic vote — but not by the kinds of margins that he needed. This also helps explain why other states like Texas, with its whopping 38 electoral votes, stayed red.  All this suggests Democrats will be asking themselves a lot of questions, no matter who the winners are when all the results are in.  Paul Brandus is the founder and White House bureau chief of West Wing Reports and a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors. His latest book, published last month, is "Jackie: Her Transformation from First Lady to Jackie O." Follow him on Twitter: @WestWingReport Democrats counted on money and Hispanic voters to deliver a blue wave. They didn't.