Reps. Pramila Jayapal and Mark Pocan  Opinion contributors  As Donald Trump leaves office, Democrats must continue building a bold, inclusive and forward-looking vision that delivers for the American people and strengthens our electoral success. The answer isn’t to think smaller or run away from our most popular policies, as some moderates suggest.  The Biden-Harris victory wouldn’t have been possible without the energy and vision of the left. Nor would it have happened without the activists and organizers who make up the heart of the Democratic Party and who fight every single day to make our communities and our nation more just.  Progressives, union workers, immigration activists, Black and Latino-led organizations, and social justice groups organized and registered voters to deliver wins in decisive battlegrounds. Young voters, particularly young voters of color, were motivated by climate action and provided critical margins in key states. Organizers drove record turnout in cities, including Atlanta and Minneapolis.  Progressive ideas also won convincing victories across the country — including in purple and red states. Voters in Florida passed a $15-an-hour minimum wage, even as Democrats lost the state. Four states legalized marijuana.  OUR VIEW:What went wrong for down-ballot Democrats  Despite these victories, some rushed to blame the left for underperformance down-ballot. Here’s the reality: Progressive incumbents in swing districts overwhelmingly won reelection. Every incumbent that co-sponsored Medicare for All in a swing district kept their seat. Only one Green New Deal co-sponsor lost reelection.  There’s no question that structural challenges — including voter suppression, an obstructionist Senate, the Electoral College and Republican gerrymandering — make it harder for Democrats to hold power, even with a popular agenda. But the answer isn’t to run scared or scapegoat progressives.  BERNIE SANDERS:Corporate Democrats are attacking so-called far-left policies  Election-eve polling in battleground states found that sizable majorities support higher taxes on the wealthy, commonsense regulations to protect the public interest and action to tackle climate change. Anti-corruption reforms, an equitable response to the pandemic, and an agenda that prioritizes working families over corporate interests are both progressive and widely popular. We can’t let dishonest Republican attack ads prevent us from delivering on the bold, transformative agenda that’s being demanded by the voters who won us this election.  If Democrats continue to let corporate donors or Republican strategists dictate our strategy, we will lose. It’s time for Democrats to try a new recipe for victory: empowering our base, sustained investment in organizing and local infrastructure, and running on a bold vision to actually improve the lives of working people.  Reps. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., and Mark Pocan, D-Wis., are co-chairs of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. Don't blame the left for underperformance down-ballot